CHOIR reading sheet - session 2
163 lines, about 22 minutes

Same mic, same room, same gain, same distance as every
other session. One continuous recording. Pause about one
second between lines. If you fluff a line, pause and say
the whole line again - do not stop recording.

Text: World English Bible (public domain).
==============================================================

   1.  You foolish one, that which you yourself sow is not made alive unless it dies.

   2.  That which you sow, you don't sow the body that will be, but a bare grain, maybe of wheat, or of some other kind.

   3.  But God gives it a body even as it pleased him, and to each seed a body of its own.

   4.  All flesh is not the same flesh, but there is one flesh of men, another flesh of animals, another of fish, and another of birds.

   5.  There are also celestial bodies, and terrestrial bodies; but the glory of the celestial differs from that of the terrestrial.

   6.  So also is the resurrection of the dead. It is sown in corruption; it is raised in incorruption.

   7.  It is sown in dishonor; it is raised in glory. It is sown in weakness; it is raised in power.

   8.  It is sown a natural body; it is raised a spiritual body. There is a natural body and there is also a spiritual body.

   9.  So also it is written, "The first man, Adam, became a living soul." The last Adam became a life-giving spirit.

  10.  However that which is spiritual isn't first, but that which is natural, then that which is spiritual.

  11.  The first man is of the earth, made of dust. The second man is the Lord from heaven.

  12.  As we have borne the image of those made of dust, let's also bear the image of the heavenly.

  13.  Now I say this, brothers, that flesh and blood can't inherit the Kingdom of God; neither does corruption inherit incorruption.

  14.  Behold, I tell you a mystery. We will not all sleep, but we will all be changed,

  15.  For this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality.

  16.  "Death, where is your sting? Hades, where is your victory?"

  17.  The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law.

  18.  But thanks be to God, who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ.

  19.  Now concerning the collection for the saints, as I commanded the assemblies of Galatia, you do likewise.

  20.  On the first day of the week, let each one of you save, as he may prosper, that no collections be made when I come.

  21.  When I arrive, I will send whoever you approve with letters to carry your gracious gift to Jerusalem.

  22.  If it is appropriate for me to go also, they will go with me.

  23.  But I will come to you when I have passed through Macedonia, for I am passing through Macedonia.

  24.  But with you it may be that I will stay, or even winter, that you may send me on my journey wherever I go.

  25.  For I do not wish to see you now in passing, but I hope to stay a while with you, if the Lord permits.

  26.  But I will stay at Ephesus until Pentecost,

  27.  Now if Timothy comes, see that he is with you without fear, for he does the work of the Lord, as I also do.

  28.  Watch! Stand firm in the faith! Be courageous! Be strong!

  29.  Let all that you do be done in love.

  30.  I rejoice at the coming of Stephanas, Fortunatus, and Achaicus; for that which was lacking on your part, they supplied.

  31.  For they refreshed my spirit and yours. Therefore acknowledge those who are like that.

  32.  The assemblies of Asia greet you. Aquila and Priscilla greet you much in the Lord, together with the assembly that is in their house.

  33.  All the brothers greet you. Greet one another with a holy kiss.

  34.  This greeting is by me, Paul, with my own hand.

  35.  If any man doesn't love the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be accursed. Come, Lord!

  36.  The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with you.

  37.  My love to all of you in Christ Jesus. Amen.

  38.  Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and God of all comfort;

  39.  For as the sufferings of Christ abound to us, even so our comfort also abounds through Christ.

  40.  Our hope for you is steadfast, knowing that, since you are partakers of the sufferings, so also are you of the comfort.

  41.  Yes, we ourselves have had the sentence of death within ourselves, that we should not trust in ourselves, but in God who raises the dead,

  42.  For we write no other things to you, than what you read or even acknowledge, and I hope you will acknowledge to the end;

  43.  In this confidence, I was determined to come first to you, that you might have a second benefit;

  44.  But as God is faithful, our word toward you was not "Yes and no."

  45.  Now he who establishes us with you in Christ, and anointed us, is God;

  46.  But I call God for a witness to my soul, that I didn't come to Corinth to spare you.

  47.  Not that we have lordship over your faith, but are fellow workers with you for your joy. For you stand firm in faith.

  48.  But I determined this for myself, that I would not come to you again in sorrow.

  49.  For if I make you sorry, then who will make me glad but he who is made sorry by me?

  50.  But if any has caused sorrow, he has caused sorrow, not to me, but in part (that I not press too heavily) to you all.

  51.  Sufficient to such a one is this punishment which was inflicted by the many;

  52.  Therefore I beg you to confirm your love toward him.

  53.  For to this end I also wrote, that I might know the proof of you, whether you are obedient in all things.

  54.  Now when I came to Troas for the Good News of Christ, and when a door was opened to me in the Lord,

  55.  I had no relief for my spirit, because I didn't find Titus, my brother, but taking my leave of them, I went out into Macedonia.

  56.  For we are a sweet aroma of Christ to God, in those who are saved, and in those who perish;

  57.  Are we beginning again to commend ourselves? Or do we need, as do some, letters of commendation to you or from you?

  58.  You are our letter, written in our hearts, known and read by all men;

  59.  Such confidence we have through Christ toward God;

  60.  For if the service of condemnation has glory, the service of righteousness exceeds much more in glory.

  61.  For most certainly that which has been made glorious has not been made glorious in this respect, by reason of the glory that surpasses.

  62.  For if that which passes away was with glory, much more that which remains is in glory.

  63.  Having therefore such a hope, we use great boldness of speech,

  64.  But to this day, when Moses is read, a veil lies on their heart.

  65.  But whenever one turns to the Lord, the veil is taken away.

  66.  Now the Lord is the Spirit and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty.

  67.  Therefore seeing we have this ministry, even as we obtained mercy, we don't faint.

  68.  Even if our Good News is veiled, it is veiled in those who perish;

  69.  For we don't preach ourselves, but Christ Jesus as Lord, and ourselves as your servants for Jesus' sake;

  70.  But we have this treasure in clay vessels, that the exceeding greatness of the power may be of God, and not from ourselves.

  71.  We are pressed on every side, yet not crushed; perplexed, yet not to despair;

  72.  For we who live are always delivered to death for Jesus' sake, that the life also of Jesus may be revealed in our mortal flesh.

  73.  So then death works in us, but life in you.

  74.  Therefore we don't faint, but though our outward man is decaying, yet our inward man is renewed day by day.

  75.  For our light affliction, which is for the moment, works for us more and more exceedingly an eternal weight of glory;

  76.  For most certainly in this we groan, longing to be clothed with our habitation which is from heaven;

  77.  Now he who made us for this very thing is God, who also gave to us the down payment of the Spirit.

  78.  Therefore, we are always confident and know that while we are at home in the body, we are absent from the Lord;

  79.  We are courageous, I say, and are willing rather to be absent from the body, and to be at home with the Lord.

  80.  Therefore also we make it our aim, whether at home or absent, to be well pleasing to him.

  81.  For if we are beside ourselves, it is for God. Or if we are of sober mind, it is for you.

  82.  For the love of Christ constrains us; because we judge thus, that one died for all, therefore all died.

  83.  He died for all, that those who live should no longer live to themselves, but to him who for their sakes died and rose again.

  84.  Therefore if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old things have passed away. Behold, all things have become new.

  85.  But all things are of God, who reconciled us to himself through Jesus Christ, and gave to us the ministry of reconciliation;

  86.  For him who knew no sin he made to be sin on our behalf; so that in him we might become the righteousness of God.

  87.  Working together, we entreat also that you not receive the grace of God in vain,

  88.  We give no occasion of stumbling in anything, that our service may not be blamed,

  89.  Our mouth is open to you, Corinthians. Our heart is enlarged.

  90.  You are not restricted by us, but you are restricted by your own affections.

  91.  Now in return, I speak as to my children, you also be open wide.

  92.  Don't be unequally yoked with unbelievers, for what fellowship have righteousness and iniquity? Or what fellowship has light with darkness?

  93.  What agreement has Christ with Belial? Or what portion has a believer with an unbeliever?

  94.  Therefore, "'Come out from among them, and be separate,' says the Lord. 'Touch no unclean thing. I will receive you.

  95.  I will be to you a Father. You will be to me sons and daughters,' says the Lord Almighty."

  96.  Having therefore these promises, beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all defilement of flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God.

  97.  Open your hearts to us. We wronged no one. We corrupted no one. We took advantage of no one.

  98.  I say this not to condemn you, for I have said before, that you are in our hearts to die together and live together.

  99.  Nevertheless, he who comforts the lowly, God, comforted us by the coming of Titus;

 100.  For godly sorrow works repentance to salvation, which brings no regret. But the sorrow of the world works death.

 101.  His affection is more abundantly toward you, while he remembers all of your obedience, how with fear and trembling you received him.

 102.  I rejoice that in everything I am confident concerning you.

 103.  Moreover, brothers, we make known to you the grace of God which has been given in the assemblies of Macedonia;

 104.  For according to their power, I testify, yes and beyond their power, they gave of their own accord,

 105.  This was not as we had hoped, but first they gave their own selves to the Lord, and to us through the will of God.

 106.  So we urged Titus, that as he made a beginning before, so he would also complete in you this grace.

 107.  I speak not by way of commandment, but as proving through the earnestness of others the sincerity also of your love.

 108.  For if the readiness is there, it is acceptable according to what you have, not according to what you don't have.

 109.  For this is not that others may be eased and you distressed,

 110.  As it is written, "He who gathered much had nothing left over, and he who gathered little had no lack."

 111.  But thanks be to God, who puts the same earnest care for you into the heart of Titus.

 112.  For he indeed accepted our exhortation, but being himself very earnest, he went out to you of his own accord.

 113.  We have sent together with him the brother whose praise in the Good News is known through all the assemblies.

 114.  We are avoiding this, that any man should blame us concerning this abundance which is administered by us.

 115.  Having regard for honorable things, not only in the sight of the Lord, but also in the sight of men.

 116.  Therefore show the proof of your love to them in front of the assemblies, and of our boasting on your behalf.

 117.  It is indeed unnecessary for me to write to you concerning the service to the saints,

 118.  Remember this: he who sows sparingly will also reap sparingly. He who sows bountifully will also reap bountifully.

 119.  Let each man give according as he has determined in his heart; not grudgingly, or under compulsion; for God loves a cheerful giver.

 120.  And God is able to make all grace abound to you, that you, always having all sufficiency in everything, may abound to every good work.

 121.  As it is written, "He has scattered abroad, he has given to the poor. His righteousness remains forever."

 122.  Now thanks be to God for his unspeakable gift!

 123.  For though we walk in the flesh, we don't wage war according to the flesh;

 124.  For, "His letters," they say, "are weighty and strong, but his bodily presence is weak, and his speech is despised."

 125.  But we will not boast beyond proper limits, but within the boundaries with which God appointed to us, which reach even to you.

 126.  But "he who boasts, let him boast in the Lord."

 127.  For it isn't he who commends himself who is approved, but whom the Lord commends.

 128.  I wish that you would bear with me in a little foolishness, but indeed you do bear with me.

 129.  For I reckon that I am not at all behind the very best apostles.

 130.  Or did I commit a sin in humbling myself that you might be exalted, because I preached to you God's Good News free of charge?

 131.  I robbed other assemblies, taking wages from them that I might serve you.

 132.  As the truth of Christ is in me, no one will stop me from this boasting in the regions of Achaia.

 133.  Why? Because I don't love you? God knows.

 134.  For such men are false apostles, deceitful workers, masquerading as Christ's apostles.

 135.  And no wonder, for even Satan masquerades as an angel of light.

 136.  It is no great thing therefore if his servants also masquerade as servants of righteousness, whose end will be according to their works.

 137.  I say again, let no one think me foolish. But if so, yet receive me as foolish, that I also may boast a little.

 138.  That which I speak, I don't speak according to the Lord, but as in foolishness, in this confidence of boasting.

 139.  Seeing that many boast after the flesh, I will also boast.

 140.  For you bear with the foolish gladly, being wise.

 141.  I speak by way of disparagement, as though we had been weak. Yet however any is bold (I speak in foolishness), I am bold also.

 142.  Five times from the Jews I received forty stripes minus one.

 143.  Besides those things that are outside, there is that which presses on me daily, anxiety for all the assemblies.

 144.  Who is weak, and I am not weak? Who is caused to stumble, and I don't burn with indignation?

 145.  If I must boast, I will boast of the things that concern my weakness.

 146.  The God and Father of the Lord Jesus Christ, he who is blessed forevermore, knows that I don't lie.

 147.  In Damascus the governor under King Aretas guarded the city of the Damascenes desiring to arrest me.

 148.  Through a window I was let down in a basket by the wall, and escaped his hands.

 149.  It is doubtless not profitable for me to boast. For I will come to visions and revelations of the Lord.

 150.  I know such a man (whether in the body, or outside of the body, I don't know; God knows),

 151.  On behalf of such a one I will boast, but on my own behalf I will not boast, except in my weaknesses.

 152.  Concerning this thing, I begged the Lord three times that it might depart from me.

 153.  Truly the signs of an apostle were worked among you in all patience, in signs and wonders and mighty works.

 154.  I will most gladly spend and be spent for your souls. If I love you more abundantly, am I loved the less?

 155.  But be it so, I did not myself burden you. But, being crafty, I caught you with deception.

 156.  Did I take advantage of you by anyone of them whom I have sent to you?

 157.  This is the third time I am coming to you. "At the mouth of two or three witnesses shall every word be established."

 158.  But I hope that you will know that we aren't disqualified.

 159.  For we can do nothing against the truth, but for the truth.

 160.  For we rejoice when we are weak and you are strong. And this we also pray for, even your perfecting.

 161.  Greet one another with a holy kiss.

 162.  All the saints greet you.

 163.  The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, the love of God, and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit, be with you all. Amen.

