CHOIR reading sheet - session 1
227 lines, about 30 minutes

Same mic, same room, same gain, same distance as every
other session. One continuous recording. Pause about one
second between lines. If you fluff a line, pause and say
the whole line again - do not stop recording.

Text: World English Bible (public domain).
==============================================================

   1.  Paul, called to be an apostle of Jesus Christ through the will of God, and our brother Sosthenes,

   2.  Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.

   3.  I always thank my God concerning you, for the grace of God which was given you in Christ Jesus;

   4.  God is faithful, through whom you were called into the fellowship of his Son, Jesus Christ, our Lord.

   5.  For it has been reported to me concerning you, my brothers, by those who are from Chloe's household, that there are contentions among you.

   6.  Now I mean this, that each one of you says, "I follow Paul," "I follow Apollos," "I follow Cephas," and, "I follow Christ."

   7.  Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or were you baptized into the name of Paul?

   8.  I thank God that I baptized none of you, except Crispus and Gaius,

   9.  (I also baptized the household of Stephanas; besides them, I don't know whether I baptized any other.)

  10.  For the word of the cross is foolishness to those who are dying, but to us who are saved it is the power of God.

  11.  For it is written, "I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, I will bring the discernment of the discerning to nothing."

  12.  Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the lawyer of this world? Hasn't God made foolish the wisdom of this world?

  13.  For Jews ask for signs, Greeks seek after wisdom,

  14.  Because the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men.

  15.  For you see your calling, brothers, that not many are wise according to the flesh, not many mighty, and not many noble;

  16.  But of him, you are in Christ Jesus, who was made to us wisdom from God, and righteousness and sanctification, and redemption:

  17.  When I came to you, brothers, I didn't come with excellence of speech or of wisdom, proclaiming to you the testimony of God.

  18.  For I determined not to know anything among you, except Jesus Christ, and him crucified.

  19.  I was with you in weakness, in fear, and in much trembling.

  20.  My speech and my preaching were not in persuasive words of human wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power,

  21.  But we speak God's wisdom in a mystery, the wisdom that has been hidden, which God foreordained before the worlds for our glory,

  22.  But to us, God revealed them through the Spirit. For the Spirit searches all things, yes, the deep things of God.

  23.  Which things also we speak, not in words which man's wisdom teaches, but which the Holy Spirit teaches, comparing spiritual things with spiritual things.

  24.  But he who is spiritual discerns all things, and he himself is judged by no one.

  25.  "For who has known the mind of the Lord, that he should instruct him?" But we have Christ's mind.

  26.  Brothers, I couldn't speak to you as to spiritual, but as to fleshly, as to babies in Christ.

  27.  I fed you with milk, not with meat; for you weren't yet ready. Indeed, not even now are you ready,

  28.  For when one says, "I follow Paul," and another, "I follow Apollos," aren't you fleshly?

  29.  Who then is Apollos, and who is Paul, but servants through whom you believed; and each as the Lord gave to him?

  30.  I planted. Apollos watered. But God gave the increase.

  31.  So then neither he who plants is anything, nor he who waters, but God who gives the increase.

  32.  Now he who plants and he who waters are the same, but each will receive his own reward according to his own labor.

  33.  For we are God's fellow workers. You are God's farming, God's building.

  34.  For no one can lay any other foundation than that which has been laid, which is Jesus Christ.

  35.  But if anyone builds on the foundation with gold, silver, costly stones, wood, hay, or stubble;

  36.  If any man's work remains which he built on it, he will receive a reward.

  37.  If any man's work is burned, he will suffer loss, but he himself will be saved, but as through fire.

  38.  Don't you know that you are a temple of God, and that God's Spirit lives in you?

  39.  If anyone destroys the temple of God, God will destroy him; for God's temple is holy, which you are.

  40.  For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God. For it is written, "He has taken the wise in their craftiness."

  41.  And again, "The Lord knows the reasoning of the wise, that it is worthless."

  42.  Therefore let no one boast in men. For all things are yours,

  43.  So let a man think of us as Christ's servants, and stewards of God's mysteries.

  44.  Here, moreover, it is required of stewards, that they be found faithful.

  45.  For I know nothing against myself. Yet I am not justified by this, but he who judges me is the Lord.

  46.  Even to this present hour we hunger, thirst, are naked, are beaten, and have no certain dwelling place.

  47.  We toil, working with our own hands. When people curse us, we bless. Being persecuted, we endure.

  48.  Being defamed, we entreat. We are made as the filth of the world, the dirt wiped off by all, even until now.

  49.  I don't write these things to shame you, but to admonish you as my beloved children.

  50.  For though you have ten thousand tutors in Christ, yet not many fathers. For in Christ Jesus, I became your father through the Good News.

  51.  I beg you therefore, be imitators of me.

  52.  Now some are puffed up, as though I were not coming to you.

  53.  For the Kingdom of God is not in word, but in power.

  54.  What do you want? Shall I come to you with a rod, or in love and a spirit of gentleness?

  55.  You are puffed up, and didn't rather mourn, that he who had done this deed might be removed from among you.

  56.  In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, you being gathered together, and my spirit, with the power of our Lord Jesus Christ,

  57.  Your boasting is not good. Don't you know that a little yeast leavens the whole lump?

  58.  I wrote to you in my letter to have no company with sexual sinners;

  59.  For what have I to do with also judging those who are outside? Don't you judge those who are within?

  60.  But those who are outside, God judges. "Put away the wicked man from among yourselves."

  61.  Dare any of you, having a matter against his neighbor, go to law before the unrighteous, and not before the saints?

  62.  Don't you know that we will judge angels? How much more, things that pertain to this life?

  63.  If then, you have to judge things pertaining to this life, do you set them to judge who are of no account in the assembly?

  64.  I say this to move you to shame. Isn't there even one wise man among you who would be able to decide between his brothers?

  65.  But brother goes to law with brother, and that before unbelievers!

  66.  No, but you yourselves do wrong, and defraud, and that against your brothers.

  67.  Now God raised up the Lord, and will also raise us up by his power.

  68.  Or don't you know that he who is joined to a prostitute is one body? For, "The two," says he, "will become one flesh."

  69.  But he who is joined to the Lord is one spirit.

  70.  Flee sexual immorality! "Every sin that a man does is outside the body," but he who commits sexual immorality sins against his own body.

  71.  Now concerning the things about which you wrote to me: it is good for a man not to touch a woman.

  72.  But, because of sexual immoralities, let each man have his own wife, and let each woman have her own husband.

  73.  Let the husband render to his wife the affection owed her, and likewise also the wife to her husband.

  74.  But this I say by way of concession, not of commandment.

  75.  But I say to the unmarried and to widows, it is good for them if they remain even as I am.

  76.  But if they don't have self-control, let them marry. For it's better to marry than to burn.

  77.  But to the married I command—not I, but the Lord—that the wife not leave her husband

  78.  (but if she departs, let her remain unmarried, or else be reconciled to her husband), and that the husband not leave his wife.

  79.  The woman who has an unbelieving husband, and he is content to live with her, let her not leave her husband.

  80.  For how do you know, wife, whether you will save your husband? Or how do you know, husband, whether you will save your wife?

  81.  Only, as the Lord has distributed to each man, as God has called each, so let him walk. So I command in all the assemblies.

  82.  Was anyone called having been circumcised? Let him not become uncircumcised. Has anyone been called in uncircumcision? Let him not be circumcised.

  83.  Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing, but the keeping of the commandments of God.

  84.  Let each man stay in that calling in which he was called.

  85.  Were you called being a bondservant? Don't let that bother you, but if you get an opportunity to become free, use it.

  86.  You were bought with a price. Don't become bondservants of men.

  87.  Brothers, let each man, in whatever condition he was called, stay in that condition with God.

  88.  Are you bound to a wife? Don't seek to be freed. Are you free from a wife? Don't seek a wife.

  89.  But I say this, brothers: the time is short, that from now on, both those who have wives may be as though they had none;

  90.  But he who stands steadfast in his heart, having no necessity, but has power over his own heart, to keep his own virgin, does well.

  91.  So then both he who gives his own virgin in marriage does well, and he who doesn't give her in marriage does better.

  92.  But she is happier if she stays as she is, in my judgment, and I think that I also have God's Spirit.

  93.  Now concerning things sacrificed to idols: We know that we all have knowledge. Knowledge puffs up, but love builds up.

  94.  But if anyone thinks that he knows anything, he doesn't yet know as he ought to know.

  95.  But if anyone loves God, the same is known by him.

  96.  For though there are things that are called "gods," whether in the heavens or on earth; as there are many "gods" and many "lords;"

  97.  But be careful that by no means does this liberty of yours become a stumbling block to the weak.

  98.  And through your knowledge, he who is weak perishes, the brother for whose sake Christ died.

  99.  Thus, sinning against the brothers, and wounding their conscience when it is weak, you sin against Christ.

 100.  Therefore, if food causes my brother to stumble, I will eat no meat forevermore, that I don't cause my brother to stumble.

 101.  My defense to those who examine me is this.

 102.  Have we no right to eat and to drink?

 103.  Or have only Barnabas and I no right to not work?

 104.  Do I speak these things according to the ways of men? Or doesn't the law also say the same thing?

 105.  If we sowed to you spiritual things, is it a great thing if we reap your fleshly things?

 106.  Even so the Lord ordained that those who proclaim the Good News should live from the Good News.

 107.  For though I was free from all, I brought myself under bondage to all, that I might gain the more.

 108.  Now I do this for the sake of the Good News, that I may be a joint partaker of it.

 109.  Don't you know that those who run in a race all run, but one receives the prize? Run like that, that you may win.

 110.  Every man who strives in the games exercises self-control in all things. Now they do it to receive a corruptible crown, but we an incorruptible.

 111.  I therefore run like that, as not uncertainly. I fight like that, as not beating the air,

 112.  Now I would not have you ignorant, brothers, that our fathers were all under the cloud, and all passed through the sea;

 113.  However with most of them, God was not well pleased, for they were overthrown in the wilderness.

 114.  Now these things were our examples, to the intent we should not lust after evil things, as they also lusted.

 115.  Neither be idolaters, as some of them were. As it is written, "The people sat down to eat and drink, and rose up to play."

 116.  Neither let us commit sexual immorality, as some of them committed, and in one day twenty-three thousand fell.

 117.  Neither let us test the Lord, as some of them tested, and perished by the serpents.

 118.  Neither grumble, as some of them also grumbled, and perished by the destroyer.

 119.  Therefore let him who thinks he stands be careful that he doesn't fall.

 120.  Therefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry.

 121.  I speak as to wise men. Judge what I say.

 122.  Because there is one loaf of bread, we, who are many, are one body; for we all partake of the one loaf of bread.

 123.  Consider Israel according to the flesh. Don't those who eat the sacrifices participate in the altar?

 124.  What am I saying then? That a thing sacrificed to idols is anything, or that an idol is anything?

 125.  Or do we provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we stronger than he?

 126.  "All things are lawful for me," but not all things are profitable. "All things are lawful for me," but not all things build up.

 127.  Let no one seek his own, but each one his neighbor's good.

 128.  Whatever is sold in the butcher shop, eat, asking no question for the sake of conscience,

 129.  Conscience, I say, not your own, but the other's conscience. For why is my liberty judged by another conscience?

 130.  If I partake with thankfulness, why am I denounced for that for which I give thanks?

 131.  Whether therefore you eat, or drink, or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God.

 132.  Give no occasions for stumbling, either to Jews, or to Greeks, or to the assembly of God;

 133.  Be imitators of me, even as I also am of Christ.

 134.  Now I praise you, brothers, that you remember me in all things, and hold firm the traditions, even as I delivered them to you.

 135.  Every man praying or prophesying, having his head covered, dishonors his head.

 136.  For man is not from woman, but woman from man;

 137.  For this cause the woman ought to have authority on her head, because of the angels.

 138.  Nevertheless, neither is the woman independent of the man, nor the man independent of the woman, in the Lord.

 139.  For as woman came from man, so a man also comes through a woman; but all things are from God.

 140.  Judge for yourselves. Is it appropriate that a woman pray to God unveiled?

 141.  Doesn't even nature itself teach you that if a man has long hair, it is a dishonor to him?

 142.  But if a woman has long hair, it is a glory to her, for her hair is given to her for a covering.

 143.  But if any man seems to be contentious, we have no such custom, neither do God's assemblies.

 144.  But in giving you this command, I don't praise you, that you come together not for the better but for the worse.

 145.  For first of all, when you come together in the assembly, I hear that divisions exist among you, and I partly believe it.

 146.  For there also must be factions among you, that those who are approved may be revealed among you.

 147.  When therefore you assemble yourselves together, it is not the Lord's supper that you eat.

 148.  For in your eating each one takes his own supper first. One is hungry, and another is drunken.

 149.  For as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes.

 150.  But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of the bread, and drink of the cup.

 151.  For he who eats and drinks in an unworthy way eats and drinks judgment to himself, if he doesn't discern the Lord's body.

 152.  For this cause many among you are weak and sickly, and not a few sleep.

 153.  For if we discerned ourselves, we wouldn't be judged.

 154.  But when we are judged, we are punished by the Lord, that we may not be condemned with the world.

 155.  Therefore, my brothers, when you come together to eat, wait for one another.

 156.  Now concerning spiritual things, brothers, I don't want you to be ignorant.

 157.  You know that when you were heathen, you were led away to those mute idols, however you might be led.

 158.  Now there are various kinds of gifts, but the same Spirit.

 159.  There are various kinds of service, and the same Lord.

 160.  There are various kinds of workings, but the same God, who works all things in all.

 161.  But to each one is given the manifestation of the Spirit for the profit of all.

 162.  For to one is given through the Spirit the word of wisdom, and to another the word of knowledge, according to the same Spirit;

 163.  But the one and the same Spirit works all of these, distributing to each one separately as he desires.

 164.  For the body is not one member, but many.

 165.  If the foot would say, "Because I'm not the hand, I'm not part of the body," it is not therefore not part of the body.

 166.  If the ear would say, "Because I'm not the eye, I'm not part of the body," it's not therefore not part of the body.

 167.  If the whole body were an eye, where would the hearing be? If the whole were hearing, where would the smelling be?

 168.  But now God has set the members, each one of them, in the body, just as he desired.

 169.  If they were all one member, where would the body be?

 170.  But now they are many members, but one body.

 171.  The eye can't tell the hand, "I have no need for you," or again the head to the feet, "I have no need for you."

 172.  No, much rather, those members of the body which seem to be weaker are necessary.

 173.  When one member suffers, all the members suffer with it. Or when one member is honored, all the members rejoice with it.

 174.  Now you are the body of Christ, and members individually.

 175.  Are all apostles? Are all prophets? Are all teachers? Are all miracle workers?

 176.  Do all have gifts of healings? Do all speak with various languages? Do all interpret?

 177.  But earnestly desire the best gifts. Moreover, I show a most excellent way to you.

 178.  If I speak with the languages of men and of angels, but don't have love, I have become sounding brass, or a clanging cymbal.

 179.  Love is patient and is kind; love doesn't envy. Love doesn't brag, is not proud,

 180.  For we know in part, and we prophesy in part;

 181.  But now faith, hope, and love remain—these three. The greatest of these is love.

 182.  Follow after love, and earnestly desire spiritual gifts, but especially that you may prophesy.

 183.  For he who speaks in another language speaks not to men, but to God; for no one understands; but in the Spirit he speaks mysteries.

 184.  But he who prophesies speaks to men for their edification, exhortation, and consolation.

 185.  He who speaks in another language edifies himself, but he who prophesies edifies the assembly.

 186.  For if the trumpet gave an uncertain sound, who would prepare himself for war?

 187.  There are, it may be, so many kinds of sounds in the world, and none of them is without meaning.

 188.  So also you, since you are zealous for spiritual gifts, seek that you may abound to the building up of the assembly.

 189.  Therefore let him who speaks in another language pray that he may interpret.

 190.  For if I pray in another language, my spirit prays, but my understanding is unfruitful.

 191.  For you most certainly give thanks well, but the other person is not built up.

 192.  I thank my God, I speak with other languages more than you all.

 193.  Brothers, don't be children in thoughts, yet in malice be babies, but in thoughts be mature.

 194.  But if all prophesy, and someone unbelieving or unlearned comes in, he is reproved by all, and he is judged by all.

 195.  If any man speaks in another language, let it be two, or at the most three, and in turn; and let one interpret.

 196.  But if there is no interpreter, let him keep silent in the assembly, and let him speak to himself, and to God.

 197.  Let the prophets speak, two or three, and let the others discern.

 198.  But if a revelation is made to another sitting by, let the first keep silent.

 199.  For you all can prophesy one by one, that all may learn, and all may be exhorted.

 200.  The spirits of the prophets are subject to the prophets,

 201.  What? Was it from you that the word of God went out? Or did it come to you alone?

 202.  But if anyone is ignorant, let him be ignorant.

 203.  Therefore, brothers, desire earnestly to prophesy, and don't forbid speaking with other languages.

 204.  Let all things be done decently and in order.

 205.  Now I declare to you, brothers, the Good News which I preached to you, which also you received, in which you also stand,

 206.  For I delivered to you first of all that which I also received: that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures,

 207.  Then he appeared to over five hundred brothers at once, most of whom remain until now, but some have also fallen asleep.

 208.  Then he appeared to James, then to all the apostles,

 209.  For I am the least of the apostles, who is not worthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the assembly of God.

 210.  Whether then it is I or they, so we preach, and so you believed.

 211.  But if there is no resurrection of the dead, neither has Christ been raised.

 212.  If Christ has not been raised, then our preaching is in vain, and your faith also is in vain.

 213.  For if the dead aren't raised, neither has Christ been raised.

 214.  If Christ has not been raised, your faith is vain; you are still in your sins.

 215.  Then they also who are fallen asleep in Christ have perished.

 216.  If we have only hoped in Christ in this life, we are of all men most pitiable.

 217.  But now Christ has been raised from the dead. He became the first fruits of those who are asleep.

 218.  For since death came by man, the resurrection of the dead also came by man.

 219.  For as in Adam all die, so also in Christ all will be made alive.

 220.  But each in his own order: Christ the first fruits, then those who are Christ's, at his coming.

 221.  For he must reign until he has put all his enemies under his feet.

 222.  The last enemy that will be abolished is death.

 223.  Why do we also stand in jeopardy every hour?

 224.  I affirm, by the boasting in you which I have in Christ Jesus our Lord, I die daily.

 225.  Don't be deceived! "Evil companionships corrupt good morals."

 226.  Wake up righteously, and don't sin, for some have no knowledge of God. I say this to your shame.

 227.  But someone will say, "How are the dead raised?" and, "With what kind of body do they come?"

