CHOIR reading sheet - session 2
226 lines, about 30 minutes

Same mic, same room, same gain, same distance as every
other session. One continuous recording. Pause about one
second between lines. If you fluff a line, pause and say
the whole line again - do not stop recording.

Text: World English Bible (public domain).
==============================================================

   1.  Suddenly looking around, they saw no one with them any more, except Jesus only.

   2.  They kept this saying to themselves, questioning what the "rising from the dead" meant.

   3.  They asked him, saying, "Why do the scribes say that Elijah must come first?"

   4.  Coming to the disciples, he saw a great multitude around them, and scribes questioning them.

   5.  Immediately all the multitude, when they saw him, were greatly amazed, and running to him greeted him.

   6.  He asked the scribes, "What are you asking them?"

   7.  One of the multitude answered, "Teacher, I brought to you my son, who has a mute spirit;

   8.  He answered him, "Unbelieving generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I bear with you? Bring him to me."

   9.  He asked his father, "How long has it been since this has come to him?" He said, "From childhood.

  10.  Jesus said to him, "If you can believe, all things are possible to him who believes."

  11.  Immediately the father of the child cried out with tears, "I believe. Help my unbelief!"

  12.  But Jesus took him by the hand, and raised him up; and he arose.

  13.  When he had come into the house, his disciples asked him privately, "Why couldn't we cast it out?"

  14.  He said to them, "This kind can come out by nothing, except by prayer and fasting."

  15.  They went out from there, and passed through Galilee. He didn't want anyone to know it.

  16.  But they didn't understand the saying, and were afraid to ask him.

  17.  He came to Capernaum, and when he was in the house he asked them, "What were you arguing among yourselves on the way?"

  18.  But they were silent, for they had disputed one with another on the way about who was the greatest.

  19.  He took a little child, and set him in their midst. Taking him in his arms, he said to them,

  20.  "Whoever receives one such little child in my name, receives me, and whoever receives me, doesn't receive me, but him who sent me."

  21.  For whoever is not against us is on our side.

  22.  'where their worm doesn't die, and the fire is not quenched.'

  23.  For everyone will be salted with fire, and every sacrifice will be seasoned with salt.

  24.  Pharisees came to him testing him, and asked him, "Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife?"

  25.  He answered, "What did Moses command you?"

  26.  They said, "Moses allowed a certificate of divorce to be written, and to divorce her."

  27.  But Jesus said to them, "For your hardness of heart, he wrote you this commandment.

  28.  But from the beginning of the creation, God made them male and female.

  29.  For this cause a man will leave his father and mother, and will join to his wife,

  30.  What therefore God has joined together, let no man separate."

  31.  In the house, his disciples asked him again about the same matter.

  32.  He said to them, "Whoever divorces his wife, and marries another, commits adultery against her.

  33.  If a woman herself divorces her husband, and marries another, she commits adultery."

  34.  They were bringing to him little children, that he should touch them, but the disciples rebuked those who were bringing them.

  35.  Most certainly I tell you, whoever will not receive the Kingdom of God like a little child, he will in no way enter into it."

  36.  He took them in his arms, and blessed them, laying his hands on them.

  37.  Jesus said to him, "Why do you call me good? No one is good except one—God.

  38.  He said to him, "Teacher, I have observed all these things from my youth."

  39.  But his face fell at that saying, and he went away sorrowful, for he was one who had great possessions.

  40.  Jesus looked around, and said to his disciples, "How difficult it is for those who have riches to enter into the Kingdom of God!"

  41.  It is easier for a camel to go through a needle's eye than for a rich man to enter into the Kingdom of God."

  42.  They were exceedingly astonished, saying to him, "Then who can be saved?"

  43.  Jesus, looking at them, said, "With men it is impossible, but not with God, for all things are possible with God."

  44.  Peter began to tell him, "Behold, we have left all, and have followed you."

  45.  But many who are first will be last; and the last first."

  46.  They will mock him, spit on him, scourge him, and kill him. On the third day he will rise again."

  47.  James and John, the sons of Zebedee, came near to him, saying, "Teacher, we want you to do for us whatever we will ask."

  48.  He said to them, "What do you want me to do for you?"

  49.  They said to him, "Grant to us that we may sit, one at your right hand, and one at your left hand, in your glory."

  50.  When the ten heard it, they began to be indignant towards James and John.

  51.  But it shall not be so among you, but whoever wants to become great among you shall be your servant.

  52.  Whoever of you wants to become first among you, shall be bondservant of all.

  53.  For the Son of Man also came not to be served, but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many."

  54.  When he heard that it was Jesus the Nazarene, he began to cry out, and say, "Jesus, you son of David, have mercy on me!"

  55.  Many rebuked him, that he should be quiet, but he cried out much more, "You son of David, have mercy on me!"

  56.  Jesus stood still, and said, "Call him." They called the blind man, saying to him, "Cheer up! Get up. He is calling you!"

  57.  He, casting away his cloak, sprang up, and came to Jesus.

  58.  Jesus asked him, "What do you want me to do for you?" The blind man said to him, "Rabboni, that I may see again."

  59.  Jesus said to him, "Go your way. Your faith has made you well." Immediately he received his sight, and followed Jesus in the way.

  60.  When they drew near to Jerusalem, to Bethsphage and Bethany, at the Mount of Olives, he sent two of his disciples,

  61.  If anyone asks you, 'Why are you doing this?' say, 'The Lord needs him;' and immediately he will send him back here."

  62.  They went away, and found a young donkey tied at the door outside in the open street, and they untied him.

  63.  Some of those who stood there asked them, "What are you doing, untying the young donkey?"

  64.  They said to them just as Jesus had said, and they let them go.

  65.  They brought the young donkey to Jesus, and threw their garments on it, and Jesus sat on it.

  66.  Many spread their garments on the way, and others were cutting down branches from the trees, and spreading them on the road.

  67.  Those who went in front, and those who followed, cried out, "Hosanna! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord!

  68.  Blessed is the kingdom of our father David that is coming in the name of the Lord! Hosanna in the highest!"

  69.  The next day, when they had come out from Bethany, he was hungry.

  70.  Jesus told it, "May no one ever eat fruit from you again!" and his disciples heard it.

  71.  He would not allow anyone to carry a container through the temple.

  72.  When evening came, he went out of the city.

  73.  As they passed by in the morning, they saw the fig tree withered away from the roots.

  74.  Peter, remembering, said to him, "Rabbi, look! The fig tree which you cursed has withered away."

  75.  Jesus answered them, "Have faith in God.

  76.  Therefore I tell you, all things whatever you pray and ask for, believe that you have received them, and you shall have them.

  77.  Whenever you stand praying, forgive, if you have anything against anyone; so that your Father, who is in heaven, may also forgive you your transgressions.

  78.  But if you do not forgive, neither will your Father in heaven forgive your transgressions."

  79.  They came again to Jerusalem, and as he was walking in the temple, the chief priests, and the scribes, and the elders came to him,

  80.  Jesus said to them, "I will ask you one question. Answer me, and I will tell you by what authority I do these things.

  81.  The baptism of John—was it from heaven, or from men? Answer me."

  82.  They reasoned with themselves, saying, "If we should say, 'From heaven;' he will say, 'Why then did you not believe him?'

  83.  If we should say, 'From men'"—they feared the people, for all held John to really be a prophet.

  84.  They answered Jesus, "We don't know." Jesus said to them, "Neither do I tell you by what authority I do these things."

  85.  When it was time, he sent a servant to the farmer to get from the farmer his share of the fruit of the vineyard.

  86.  They took him, beat him, and sent him away empty.

  87.  Again, he sent another servant to them; and they threw stones at him, wounded him in the head, and sent him away shamefully treated.

  88.  Again he sent another; and they killed him; and many others, beating some, and killing some.

  89.  Therefore still having one, his beloved son, he sent him last to them, saying, 'They will respect my son.'

  90.  But those farmers said among themselves, 'This is the heir. Come, let's kill him, and the inheritance will be ours.'

  91.  They took him, killed him, and cast him out of the vineyard.

  92.  What therefore will the lord of the vineyard do? He will come and destroy the farmers, and will give the vineyard to others.

  93.  Haven't you even read this Scripture: 'The stone which the builders rejected, the same was made the head of the corner.

  94.  This was from the Lord, it is marvelous in our eyes'?"

  95.  They sent some of the Pharisees and of the Herodians to him, that they might trap him with words.

  96.  They brought it. He said to them, "Whose is this image and inscription?" They said to him, "Caesar's."

  97.  Jesus answered them, "Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's." They marveled greatly at him.

  98.  There came to him Sadducees, who say that there is no resurrection. They asked him, saying,

  99.  There were seven brothers. The first took a wife, and dying left no offspring.

 100.  The second took her, and died, leaving no children behind him. The third likewise;

 101.  In the resurrection, when they rise, whose wife will she be of them? For the seven had her as a wife."

 102.  Jesus answered them, "Isn't this because you are mistaken, not knowing the Scriptures, nor the power of God?

 103.  For when they will rise from the dead, they neither marry, nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven.

 104.  He is not the God of the dead, but of the living. You are therefore badly mistaken."

 105.  Jesus answered, "The greatest is, 'Hear, Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one:

 106.  The second is like this, 'You shall love your neighbor as yourself.' There is no other commandment greater than these."

 107.  The scribe said to him, "Truly, teacher, you have said well that he is one, and there is none other but he,

 108.  Jesus responded, as he taught in the temple, "How is it that the scribes say that the Christ is the son of David?

 109.  Therefore David himself calls him Lord, so how can he be his son?" The common people heard him gladly.

 110.  In his teaching he said to them, "Beware of the scribes, who like to walk in long robes, and to get greetings in the marketplaces,

 111.  Jesus sat down opposite the treasury, and saw how the multitude cast money into the treasury. Many who were rich cast in much.

 112.  A poor widow came, and she cast in two small brass coins, which equal a quadrans coin.

 113.  As he went out of the temple, one of his disciples said to him, "Teacher, see what kind of stones and what kind of buildings!"

 114.  As he sat on the Mount of Olives opposite the temple, Peter, James, John, and Andrew asked him privately,

 115.  "Tell us, when will these things be? What is the sign that these things are all about to be fulfilled?"

 116.  Jesus, answering, began to tell them, "Be careful that no one leads you astray.

 117.  For many will come in my name, saying, 'I am he!' and will lead many astray.

 118.  "When you hear of wars and rumors of wars, don't be troubled. For those must happen, but the end is not yet.

 119.  The Good News must first be preached to all the nations.

 120.  You will be hated by all men for my name's sake, but he who endures to the end, the same will be saved.

 121.  Let him who is in the field not return back to take his cloak.

 122.  But woe to those who are with child and to those who nurse babies in those days!

 123.  Pray that your flight won't be in the winter.

 124.  Then if anyone tells you, 'Look, here is the Christ!' or, 'Look, there!' don't believe it.

 125.  But you watch. "Behold, I have told you all things beforehand.

 126.  But in those days, after that oppression, the sun will be darkened, the moon will not give its light,

 127.  Then they will see the Son of Man coming in clouds with great power and glory.

 128.  Most certainly I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all these things happen.

 129.  Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away.

 130.  But of that day or that hour no one knows, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but only the Father.

 131.  Watch, keep alert, and pray; for you don't know when the time is.

 132.  What I tell you, I tell all: Watch."

 133.  For they said, "Not during the feast, because there might be a riot of the people."

 134.  But there were some who were indignant among themselves, saying, "Why has this ointment been wasted?

 135.  For this might have been sold for more than three hundred denarii, and given to the poor." They grumbled against her.

 136.  But Jesus said, "Leave her alone. Why do you trouble her? She has done a good work for me.

 137.  For you always have the poor with you, and whenever you want to, you can do them good; but you will not always have me.

 138.  She has done what she could. She has anointed my body beforehand for the burying.

 139.  Judas Iscariot, who was one of the twelve, went away to the chief priests, that he might deliver him to them.

 140.  They, when they heard it, were glad, and promised to give him money. He sought how he might conveniently deliver him.

 141.  He will himself show you a large upper room furnished and ready. Get ready for us there."

 142.  His disciples went out, and came into the city, and found things as he had said to them, and they prepared the Passover.

 143.  When it was evening he came with the twelve.

 144.  As they sat and were eating, Jesus said, "Most certainly I tell you, one of you will betray me—he who eats with me."

 145.  They began to be sorrowful, and to ask him one by one, "Surely not I?" And another said, "Surely not I?"

 146.  He answered them, "It is one of the twelve, he who dips with me in the dish.

 147.  He took the cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave to them. They all drank of it.

 148.  He said to them, "This is my blood of the new covenant, which is poured out for many.

 149.  When they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives.

 150.  However, after I am raised up, I will go before you into Galilee."

 151.  But Peter said to him, "Although all will be offended, yet I will not."

 152.  But he spoke all the more, "If I must die with you, I will not deny you." They all said the same thing.

 153.  They came to a place which was named Gethsemane. He said to his disciples, "Sit here, while I pray."

 154.  He took with him Peter, James, and John, and began to be greatly troubled and distressed.

 155.  He said to them, "My soul is exceedingly sorrowful, even to death. Stay here, and watch."

 156.  He went forward a little, and fell on the ground, and prayed that, if it were possible, the hour might pass away from him.

 157.  He said, "Abba, Father, all things are possible to you. Please remove this cup from me. However, not what I desire, but what you desire."

 158.  He came and found them sleeping, and said to Peter, "Simon, are you sleeping? Couldn't you watch one hour?

 159.  Watch and pray, that you may not enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak."

 160.  Again he went away, and prayed, saying the same words.

 161.  Again he returned, and found them sleeping, for their eyes were very heavy, and they didn't know what to answer him.

 162.  Arise, let us be going. Behold, he who betrays me is at hand."

 163.  Now he who betrayed him had given them a sign, saying, "Whomever I will kiss, that is he. Seize him, and lead him away safely."

 164.  When he had come, immediately he came to him, and said, "Rabbi! Rabbi!" and kissed him.

 165.  They laid their hands on him, and seized him.

 166.  But a certain one of those who stood by drew his sword, and struck the servant of the high priest, and cut off his ear.

 167.  Jesus answered them, "Have you come out, as against a robber, with swords and clubs to seize me?

 168.  I was daily with you in the temple teaching, and you didn't arrest me. But this is so that the Scriptures might be fulfilled."

 169.  They all left him, and fled.

 170.  A certain young man followed him, having a linen cloth thrown around himself, over his naked body. The young men grabbed him,

 171.  They led Jesus away to the high priest. All the chief priests, the elders, and the scribes came together with him.

 172.  Now the chief priests and the whole council sought witnesses against Jesus to put him to death, and found none.

 173.  For many gave false testimony against him, and their testimony didn't agree with each other.

 174.  Some stood up, and gave false testimony against him, saying,

 175.  "We heard him say, 'I will destroy this temple that is made with hands, and in three days I will build another made without hands.'"

 176.  Even so, their testimony did not agree.

 177.  The high priest stood up in the midst, and asked Jesus, "Have you no answer? What is it which these testify against you?"

 178.  But he stayed quiet, and answered nothing. Again the high priest asked him, "Are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed?"

 179.  The high priest tore his clothes, and said, "What further need have we of witnesses?

 180.  You have heard the blasphemy! What do you think?" They all condemned him to be worthy of death.

 181.  As Peter was in the courtyard below, one of the maids of the high priest came,

 182.  But he denied it, saying, "I neither know, nor understand what you are saying." He went out on the porch, and the rooster crowed.

 183.  The maid saw him, and began again to tell those who stood by, "This is one of them."

 184.  But he began to curse, and to swear, "I don't know this man of whom you speak!"

 185.  Pilate asked him, "Are you the King of the Jews?" He answered, "So you say."

 186.  The chief priests accused him of many things.

 187.  Pilate again asked him, "Have you no answer? See how many things they testify against you!"

 188.  But Jesus made no further answer, so that Pilate marveled.

 189.  Now at the feast he used to release to them one prisoner, whom they asked of him.

 190.  There was one called Barabbas, bound with those who had made insurrection, men who in the insurrection had committed murder.

 191.  The multitude, crying aloud, began to ask him to do as he always did for them.

 192.  Pilate answered them, saying, "Do you want me to release to you the King of the Jews?"

 193.  For he perceived that for envy the chief priests had delivered him up.

 194.  But the chief priests stirred up the multitude, that he should release Barabbas to them instead.

 195.  Pilate again asked them, "What then should I do to him whom you call the King of the Jews?"

 196.  They cried out again, "Crucify him!"

 197.  Pilate said to them, "Why, what evil has he done?" But they cried out exceedingly, "Crucify him!"

 198.  Pilate, wishing to please the multitude, released Barabbas to them, and handed over Jesus, when he had flogged him, to be crucified.

 199.  The soldiers led him away within the court, which is the Praetorium; and they called together the whole cohort.

 200.  They clothed him with purple, and weaving a crown of thorns, they put it on him.

 201.  They began to salute him, "Hail, King of the Jews!"

 202.  They struck his head with a reed, and spat on him, and bowing their knees, did homage to him.

 203.  They brought him to the place called Golgotha, which is, being interpreted, "The place of a skull."

 204.  They offered him wine mixed with myrrh to drink, but he didn't take it.

 205.  Crucifying him, they parted his garments among them, casting lots on them, what each should take.

 206.  It was the third hour, and they crucified him.

 207.  The superscription of his accusation was written over him, "THE KING OF THE JEWS."

 208.  With him they crucified two robbers; one on his right hand, and one on his left.

 209.  The Scripture was fulfilled, which says, "He was numbered with transgressors."

 210.  Those who passed by blasphemed him, wagging their heads, and saying, "Ha! You who destroy the temple, and build it in three days,

 211.  Likewise, also the chief priests mocking among themselves with the scribes said, "He saved others. He can't save himself.

 212.  When the sixth hour had come, there was darkness over the whole land until the ninth hour.

 213.  Some of those who stood by, when they heard it, said, "Behold, he is calling Elijah."

 214.  Jesus cried out with a loud voice, and gave up the spirit.

 215.  The veil of the temple was torn in two from the top to the bottom.

 216.  When evening had now come, because it was the Preparation Day, that is, the day before the Sabbath,

 217.  Pilate marveled if he were already dead; and summoning the centurion, he asked him whether he had been dead long.

 218.  When he found out from the centurion, he granted the body to Joseph.

 219.  Mary Magdalene and Mary, the mother of Joses, saw where he was laid.

 220.  When the Sabbath was past, Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James, and Salome, bought spices, that they might come and anoint him.

 221.  Very early on the first day of the week, they came to the tomb when the sun had risen.

 222.  They were saying among themselves, "Who will roll away the stone from the door of the tomb for us?"

 223.  Entering into the tomb, they saw a young man sitting on the right side, dressed in a white robe, and they were amazed.

 224.  But go, tell his disciples and Peter, 'He goes before you into Galilee. There you will see him, as he said to you.'"

 225.  They went out, and fled from the tomb, for trembling and astonishment had come on them. They said nothing to anyone; for they were afraid.

 226.  She went and told those who had been with him, as they mourned and wept.

