CHOIR reading sheet - session 7
219 lines, about 30 minutes

Same mic, same room, same gain, same distance as every
other session. One continuous recording. Pause about one
second between lines. If you fluff a line, pause and say
the whole line again - do not stop recording.

Text: World English Bible (public domain).
==============================================================

   1.  If a son of peace is there, your peace will rest on him; but if not, it will return to you.

   2.  Into whatever city you enter, and they receive you, eat the things that are set before you.

   3.  Heal the sick who are therein, and tell them, 'The Kingdom of God has come near to you.'

   4.  But into whatever city you enter, and they don't receive you, go out into its streets and say,

   5.  I tell you, it will be more tolerable in that day for Sodom than for that city.

   6.  But it will be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon in the judgment than for you.

   7.  You, Capernaum, who are exalted to heaven, will be brought down to Hades.

   8.  Whoever listens to you listens to me, and whoever rejects you rejects me. Whoever rejects me rejects him who sent me."

   9.  The seventy returned with joy, saying, "Lord, even the demons are subject to us in your name!"

  10.  He said to them, "I saw Satan having fallen like lightning from heaven.

  11.  Nevertheless, don't rejoice in this, that the spirits are subject to you, but rejoice that your names are written in heaven."

  12.  Turning to the disciples, he said privately, "Blessed are the eyes which see the things that you see,

  13.  Behold, a certain lawyer stood up and tested him, saying, "Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?"

  14.  He said to him, "What is written in the law? How do you read it?"

  15.  He said to him, "You have answered correctly. Do this, and you will live."

  16.  But he, desiring to justify himself, asked Jesus, "Who is my neighbor?"

  17.  By chance a certain priest was going down that way. When he saw him, he passed by on the other side.

  18.  In the same way a Levite also, when he came to the place, and saw him, passed by on the other side.

  19.  But a certain Samaritan, as he traveled, came where he was. When he saw him, he was moved with compassion,

  20.  Now which of these three do you think seemed to be a neighbor to him who fell among the robbers?"

  21.  He said, "He who showed mercy on him." Then Jesus said to him, "Go and do likewise."

  22.  It happened as they went on their way, he entered into a certain village, and a certain woman named Martha received him into her house.

  23.  She had a sister called Mary, who also sat at Jesus' feet, and heard his word.

  24.  Jesus answered her, "Martha, Martha, you are anxious and troubled about many things,

  25.  Give us day by day our daily bread.

  26.  He said to them, "Which of you, if you go to a friend at midnight, and tell him, 'Friend, lend me three loaves of bread,

  27.  For everyone who asks receives. He who seeks finds. To him who knocks it will be opened.

  28.  Or if he asks for an egg, he won't give him a scorpion, will he?

  29.  But some of them said, "He casts out demons by Beelzebul, the prince of the demons."

  30.  Others, testing him, sought from him a sign from heaven.

  31.  But he, knowing their thoughts, said to them, "Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation. A house divided against itself falls.

  32.  If Satan also is divided against himself, how will his kingdom stand? For you say that I cast out demons by Beelzebul.

  33.  But if I cast out demons by Beelzebul, by whom do your children cast them out? Therefore will they be your judges.

  34.  But if I by the finger of God cast out demons, then the Kingdom of God has come to you.

  35.  "When the strong man, fully armed, guards his own dwelling, his goods are safe.

  36.  But when someone stronger attacks him and overcomes him, he takes from him his whole armor in which he trusted, and divides his spoils.

  37.  "He that is not with me is against me. He who doesn't gather with me scatters.

  38.  When he returns, he finds it swept and put in order.

  39.  But he said, "On the contrary, blessed are those who hear the word of God, and keep it."

  40.  For even as Jonah became a sign to the Ninevites, so will also the Son of Man be to this generation.

  41.  Therefore see whether the light that is in you isn't darkness.

  42.  Now as he spoke, a certain Pharisee asked him to dine with him. He went in, and sat at the table.

  43.  When the Pharisee saw it, he marveled that he had not first washed himself before dinner.

  44.  You foolish ones, didn't he who made the outside make the inside also?

  45.  But give for gifts to the needy those things which are within, and behold, all things will be clean to you.

  46.  Woe to you Pharisees! For you love the best seats in the synagogues, and the greetings in the marketplaces.

  47.  Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you are like hidden graves, and the men who walk over them don't know it."

  48.  One of the lawyers answered him, "Teacher, in saying this you insult us also."

  49.  Woe to you! For you build the tombs of the prophets, and your fathers killed them.

  50.  So you testify and consent to the works of your fathers. For they killed them, and you build their tombs.

  51.  Therefore also the wisdom of God said, 'I will send to them prophets and apostles; and some of them they will kill and persecute,

  52.  Woe to you lawyers! For you took away the key of knowledge. You didn't enter in yourselves, and those who were entering in, you hindered."

  53.  As he said these things to them, the scribes and the Pharisees began to be terribly angry, and to draw many things out of him;

  54.  But there is nothing covered up, that will not be revealed, nor hidden, that will not be known.

  55.  "I tell you, my friends, don't be afraid of those who kill the body, and after that have no more that they can do.

  56.  "Aren't five sparrows sold for two assaria coins? Not one of them is forgotten by God.

  57.  But the very hairs of your head are all numbered. Therefore don't be afraid. You are of more value than many sparrows.

  58.  "I tell you, everyone who confesses me before men, him will the Son of Man also confess before the angels of God;

  59.  Everyone who speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven, but those who blaspheme against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven.

  60.  One of the multitude said to him, "Teacher, tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me."

  61.  But he said to him, "Man, who made me a judge or an arbitrator over you?"

  62.  He said to them, "Beware! Keep yourselves from covetousness, for a man's life doesn't consist of the abundance of the things which he possesses."

  63.  He spoke a parable to them, saying, "The ground of a certain rich man brought forth abundantly.

  64.  He reasoned within himself, saying, 'What will I do, because I don't have room to store my crops?'

  65.  I will tell my soul, "Soul, you have many goods laid up for many years. Take your ease, eat, drink, be merry."'

  66.  "But God said to him, 'You foolish one, tonight your soul is required of you. The things which you have prepared—whose will they be?'

  67.  So is he who lays up treasure for himself, and is not rich toward God."

  68.  Life is more than food, and the body is more than clothing.

  69.  Which of you by being anxious can add a cubit to his height?

  70.  If then you aren't able to do even the least things, why are you anxious about the rest?

  71.  Don't seek what you will eat or what you will drink; neither be anxious.

  72.  For the nations of the world seek after all of these things, but your Father knows that you need these things.

  73.  But seek God's Kingdom, and all these things will be added to you.

  74.  Don't be afraid, little flock, for it is your Father's good pleasure to give you the Kingdom.

  75.  For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.

  76.  "Let your waist be dressed and your lamps burning.

  77.  They will be blessed if he comes in the second or third watch, and finds them so.

  78.  Therefore be ready also, for the Son of Man is coming in an hour that you don't expect him."

  79.  Peter said to him, "Lord, are you telling this parable to us, or to everybody?"

  80.  Blessed is that servant whom his lord will find doing so when he comes.

  81.  Truly I tell you, that he will set him over all that he has.

  82.  That servant, who knew his lord's will, and didn't prepare, nor do what he wanted, will be beaten with many stripes,

  83.  "I came to throw fire on the earth. I wish it were already kindled.

  84.  But I have a baptism to be baptized with, and how distressed I am until it is accomplished!

  85.  Do you think that I have come to give peace in the earth? I tell you, no, but rather division.

  86.  For from now on, there will be five in one house divided, three against two, and two against three.

  87.  When a south wind blows, you say, 'There will be a scorching heat,' and it happens.

  88.  You hypocrites! You know how to interpret the appearance of the earth and the sky, but how is it that you don't interpret this time?

  89.  Why don't you judge for yourselves what is right?

  90.  I tell you, you will by no means get out of there, until you have paid the very last penny."

  91.  Now there were some present at the same time who told him about the Galileans, whose blood Pilate had mixed with their sacrifices.

  92.  Jesus answered them, "Do you think that these Galileans were worse sinners than all the other Galileans, because they suffered such things?

  93.  I tell you, no, but unless you repent, you will all perish in the same way.

  94.  I tell you, no, but, unless you repent, you will all perish in the same way."

  95.  He spoke this parable. "A certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard, and he came seeking fruit on it, and found none.

  96.  He answered, 'Lord, leave it alone this year also, until I dig around it, and fertilize it.

  97.  If it bears fruit, fine; but if not, after that, you can cut it down.'"

  98.  He was teaching in one of the synagogues on the Sabbath day.

  99.  When Jesus saw her, he called her, and said to her, "Woman, you are freed from your infirmity."

 100.  He laid his hands on her, and immediately she stood up straight, and glorified God.

 101.  Ought not this woman, being a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan had bound eighteen long years, be freed from this bondage on the Sabbath day?"

 102.  As he said these things, all his adversaries were disappointed, and all the multitude rejoiced for all the glorious things that were done by him.

 103.  He said, "What is the Kingdom of God like? To what shall I compare it?

 104.  Again he said, "To what shall I compare the Kingdom of God?

 105.  It is like yeast, which a woman took and hid in three measures of flour, until it was all leavened."

 106.  He went on his way through cities and villages, teaching, and traveling on to Jerusalem.

 107.  One said to him, "Lord, are they few who are saved?" He said to them,

 108.  "Strive to enter in by the narrow door, for many, I tell you, will seek to enter in, and will not be able.

 109.  Then you will begin to say, 'We ate and drank in your presence, and you taught in our streets.'

 110.  He will say, 'I tell you, I don't know where you come from. Depart from me, all you workers of iniquity.'

 111.  They will come from the east, west, north, and south, and will sit down in the Kingdom of God.

 112.  Behold, there are some who are last who will be first, and there are some who are first who will be last."

 113.  On that same day, some Pharisees came, saying to him, "Get out of here, and go away, for Herod wants to kill you."

 114.  Nevertheless I must go on my way today and tomorrow and the next day, for it can't be that a prophet perish outside of Jerusalem.'

 115.  Behold, a certain man who had dropsy was in front of him.

 116.  Jesus, answering, spoke to the lawyers and Pharisees, saying, "Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath?"

 117.  But they were silent. He took him, and healed him, and let him go.

 118.  He answered them, "Which of you, if your son or an ox fell into a well, wouldn't immediately pull him out on a Sabbath day?"

 119.  They couldn't answer him regarding these things.

 120.  He spoke a parable to those who were invited, when he noticed how they chose the best seats, and said to them,

 121.  For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be exalted."

 122.  But when you make a feast, ask the poor, the maimed, the lame, or the blind;

 123.  But he said to him, "A certain man made a great supper, and he invited many people.

 124.  He sent out his servant at supper time to tell those who were invited, 'Come, for everything is ready now.'

 125.  "Another said, 'I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I must go try them out. Please have me excused.'

 126.  "Another said, 'I have married a wife, and therefore I can't come.'

 127.  "The servant said, 'Lord, it is done as you commanded, and there is still room.'

 128.  "The lord said to the servant, 'Go out into the highways and hedges, and compel them to come in, that my house may be filled.

 129.  For I tell you that none of those men who were invited will taste of my supper.'"

 130.  Now great multitudes were going with him. He turned and said to them,

 131.  Whoever doesn't bear his own cross, and come after me, can't be my disciple.

 132.  Or perhaps, when he has laid a foundation, and is not able to finish, everyone who sees begins to mock him,

 133.  Or else, while the other is yet a great way off, he sends an envoy, and asks for conditions of peace.

 134.  So therefore whoever of you who doesn't renounce all that he has, he can't be my disciple.

 135.  Salt is good, but if the salt becomes flat and tasteless, with what do you season it?

 136.  It is fit neither for the soil nor for the manure pile. It is thrown out. He who has ears to hear, let him hear."

 137.  Now all the tax collectors and sinners were coming close to him to hear him.

 138.  The Pharisees and the scribes murmured, saying, "This man welcomes sinners, and eats with them."

 139.  He told them this parable.

 140.  When he has found it, he carries it on his shoulders, rejoicing.

 141.  Even so, I tell you, there is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner repenting."

 142.  He said, "A certain man had two sons.

 143.  The younger of them said to his father, 'Father, give me my share of your property.' He divided his livelihood between them.

 144.  When he had spent all of it, there arose a severe famine in that country, and he began to be in need.

 145.  He went and joined himself to one of the citizens of that country, and he sent him into his fields to feed pigs.

 146.  He wanted to fill his belly with the husks that the pigs ate, but no one gave him any.

 147.  But when he came to himself he said, 'How many hired servants of my father's have bread enough to spare, and I'm dying with hunger!

 148.  I will get up and go to my father, and will tell him, "Father, I have sinned against heaven, and in your sight.

 149.  I am no more worthy to be called your son. Make me as one of your hired servants."'

 150.  The son said to him, 'Father, I have sinned against heaven, and in your sight. I am no longer worthy to be called your son.'

 151.  Bring the fattened calf, kill it, and let us eat, and celebrate;

 152.  "Now his elder son was in the field. As he came near to the house, he heard music and dancing.

 153.  He called one of the servants to him, and asked what was going on.

 154.  He said to him, 'Your brother has come, and your father has killed the fattened calf, because he has received him back safe and healthy.'

 155.  But he was angry, and would not go in. Therefore his father came out, and begged him.

 156.  But when this, your son, came, who has devoured your living with prostitutes, you killed the fattened calf for him.'

 157.  "He said to him, 'Son, you are always with me, and all that is mine is yours.

 158.  But it was appropriate to celebrate and be glad, for this, your brother, was dead, and is alive again. He was lost, and is found.'"

 159.  I know what I will do, so that when I am removed from management, they may receive me into their houses.'

 160.  Calling each one of his lord's debtors to him, he said to the first, 'How much do you owe to my lord?'

 161.  He said, 'A hundred batos of oil.' He said to him, 'Take your bill, and sit down quickly and write fifty.'

 162.  I tell you, make for yourselves friends by means of unrighteous mammon, so that when you fail, they may receive you into the eternal tents.

 163.  If therefore you have not been faithful in the unrighteous mammon, who will commit to your trust the true riches?

 164.  If you have not been faithful in that which is another's, who will give you that which is your own?

 165.  The Pharisees, who were lovers of money, also heard all these things, and they scoffed at him.

 166.  But it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away, than for one tiny stroke of a pen in the law to fall.

 167.  Everyone who divorces his wife, and marries another, commits adultery. He who marries one who is divorced from a husband commits adultery.

 168.  "Now there was a certain rich man, and he was clothed in purple and fine linen, living in luxury every day.

 169.  A certain beggar, named Lazarus, was laid at his gate, full of sores,

 170.  In Hades, he lifted up his eyes, being in torment, and saw Abraham far off, and Lazarus at his bosom.

 171.  "He said, 'I ask you therefore, father, that you would send him to my father's house;

 172.  "But Abraham said to him, 'They have Moses and the prophets. Let them listen to them.'

 173.  "He said, 'No, father Abraham, but if one goes to them from the dead, they will repent.'

 174.  "He said to him, 'If they don't listen to Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded if one rises from the dead.'"

 175.  He said to the disciples, "It is impossible that no occasions of stumbling should come, but woe to him through whom they come!

 176.  Be careful. If your brother sins against you, rebuke him. If he repents, forgive him.

 177.  If he sins against you seven times in the day, and seven times returns, saying, 'I repent,' you shall forgive him."

 178.  The apostles said to the Lord, "Increase our faith."

 179.  Does he thank that servant because he did the things that were commanded? I think not.

 180.  Even so you also, when you have done all the things that are commanded you, say, 'We are unworthy servants. We have done our duty.'"

 181.  It happened as he was on his way to Jerusalem, that he was passing along the borders of Samaria and Galilee.

 182.  As he entered into a certain village, ten men who were lepers met him, who stood at a distance.

 183.  They lifted up their voices, saying, "Jesus, Master, have mercy on us!"

 184.  When he saw them, he said to them, "Go and show yourselves to the priests." It happened that as they went, they were cleansed.

 185.  One of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back, glorifying God with a loud voice.

 186.  He fell on his face at Jesus' feet, giving him thanks; and he was a Samaritan.

 187.  Jesus answered, "Weren't the ten cleansed? But where are the nine?

 188.  Were there none found who returned to give glory to God, except this stranger?"

 189.  Then he said to him, "Get up, and go your way. Your faith has healed you."

 190.  Being asked by the Pharisees when the Kingdom of God would come, he answered them, "The Kingdom of God doesn't come with observation;

 191.  They will tell you, 'Look, here!' or 'Look, there!' Don't go away, nor follow after them,

 192.  But first, he must suffer many things and be rejected by this generation.

 193.  As it happened in the days of Noah, even so will it be also in the days of the Son of Man.

 194.  Likewise, even as it happened in the days of Lot: they ate, they drank, they bought, they sold, they planted, they built;

 195.  It will be the same way in the day that the Son of Man is revealed.

 196.  Whoever seeks to save his life loses it, but whoever loses his life preserves it.

 197.  I tell you, in that night there will be two people in one bed. The one will be taken, and the other will be left.

 198.  There will be two grinding grain together. One will be taken, and the other will be left."

 199.  They, answering, asked him, "Where, Lord?" He said to them, "Where the body is, there will the vultures also be gathered together."

 200.  He also spoke a parable to them that they must always pray, and not give up,

 201.  A widow was in that city, and she often came to him, saying, 'Defend me from my adversary!'

 202.  He wouldn't for a while, but afterward he said to himself, 'Though I neither fear God, nor respect man,

 203.  The Lord said, "Listen to what the unrighteous judge says.

 204.  Won't God avenge his chosen ones, who are crying out to him day and night, and yet he exercises patience with them?

 205.  I tell you that he will avenge them quickly. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man comes, will he find faith on the earth?"

 206.  He spoke also this parable to certain people who were convinced of their own righteousness, and who despised all others.

 207.  "Two men went up into the temple to pray; one was a Pharisee, and the other was a tax collector.

 208.  I fast twice a week. I give tithes of all that I get.'

 209.  They were also bringing their babies to him, that he might touch them. But when the disciples saw it, they rebuked them.

 210.  Most certainly, I tell you, whoever doesn't receive the Kingdom of God like a little child, he will in no way enter into it."

 211.  A certain ruler asked him, saying, "Good Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?"

 212.  Jesus asked him, "Why do you call me good? No one is good, except one—God.

 213.  You know the commandments: 'Don't commit adultery,' 'Don't murder,' 'Don't steal,' 'Don't give false testimony,' 'Honor your father and your mother.'"

 214.  He said, "I have observed all these things from my youth up."

 215.  But when he heard these things, he became very sad, for he was very rich.

 216.  Jesus, seeing that he became very sad, said, "How hard it is for those who have riches to enter into the Kingdom of God!

 217.  Those who heard it said, "Then who can be saved?"

 218.  But he said, "The things which are impossible with men are possible with God."

 219.  Peter said, "Look, we have left everything, and followed you."

