CHOIR reading sheet - session 10
222 lines, about 30 minutes

Same mic, same room, same gain, same distance as every
other session. One continuous recording. Pause about one
second between lines. If you fluff a line, pause and say
the whole line again - do not stop recording.

Text: World English Bible (public domain).
==============================================================

   1.  But a voice answered me the second time out of heaven, 'What God has cleansed, don't you call unclean.'

   2.  This was done three times, and all were drawn up again into heaven.

   3.  Behold, immediately three men stood before the house where I was, having been sent from Caesarea to me.

   4.  The Spirit told me to go with them, without discriminating. These six brothers also accompanied me, and we entered into the man's house.

   5.  As I began to speak, the Holy Spirit fell on them, even as on us at the beginning.

   6.  I remembered the word of the Lord, how he said, 'John indeed baptized in water, but you will be baptized in the Holy Spirit.'

   7.  When they heard these things, they held their peace, and glorified God, saying, "Then God has also granted to the Gentiles repentance to life!"

   8.  The hand of the Lord was with them, and a great number believed and turned to the Lord.

   9.  The report concerning them came to the ears of the assembly which was in Jerusalem. They sent out Barnabas to go as far as Antioch,

  10.  For he was a good man, and full of the Holy Spirit and of faith, and many people were added to the Lord.

  11.  Barnabas went out to Tarsus to look for Saul.

  12.  Now in these days, prophets came down from Jerusalem to Antioch.

  13.  As any of the disciples had plenty, each determined to send relief to the brothers who lived in Judea;

  14.  Now about that time, King Herod stretched out his hands to oppress some of the assembly.

  15.  He killed James, the brother of John, with the sword.

  16.  When he saw that it pleased the Jews, he proceeded to seize Peter also. This was during the days of unleavened bread.

  17.  Peter therefore was kept in the prison, but constant prayer was made by the assembly to God for him.

  18.  When Peter knocked at the door of the gate, a maid named Rhoda came to answer.

  19.  They said to her, "You are crazy!" But she insisted that it was so. They said, "It is his angel."

  20.  But Peter continued knocking. When they had opened, they saw him, and were amazed.

  21.  Now as soon as it was day, there was no small stir among the soldiers about what had become of Peter.

  22.  On an appointed day, Herod dressed himself in royal clothing, sat on the throne, and gave a speech to them.

  23.  The people shouted, "The voice of a god, and not of a man!"

  24.  Immediately an angel of the Lord struck him, because he didn't give God the glory, and he was eaten by worms and died.

  25.  But the word of God grew and multiplied.

  26.  Barnabas and Saul returned to Jerusalem, when they had fulfilled their service, also taking with them John whose surname was Mark.

  27.  Then, when they had fasted and prayed and laid their hands on them, they sent them away.

  28.  So, being sent out by the Holy Spirit, they went down to Seleucia. From there they sailed to Cyprus.

  29.  When they were at Salamis, they proclaimed the word of God in the Jewish synagogues. They had also John as their attendant.

  30.  When they had gone through the island to Paphos, they found a certain sorcerer, a false prophet, a Jew, whose name was Bar Jesus,

  31.  But Elymas the sorcerer (for so is his name by interpretation) withstood them, seeking to turn aside the proconsul from the faith.

  32.  But Saul, who is also called Paul, filled with the Holy Spirit, fastened his eyes on him,

  33.  Then the proconsul, when he saw what was done, believed, being astonished at the teaching of the Lord.

  34.  Now Paul and his company set sail from Paphos, and came to Perga in Pamphylia. John departed from them and returned to Jerusalem.

  35.  But they, passing on from Perga, came to Antioch of Pisidia. They went into the synagogue on the Sabbath day, and sat down.

  36.  Paul stood up, and beckoning with his hand said, "Men of Israel, and you who fear God, listen.

  37.  For a period of about forty years he put up with them in the wilderness.

  38.  When he had destroyed seven nations in the land of Canaan, he gave them their land for an inheritance, for about four hundred fifty years.

  39.  After these things he gave them judges until Samuel the prophet.

  40.  From this man's seed, God has brought salvation to Israel according to his promise,

  41.  Brothers, children of the stock of Abraham, and those among you who fear God, the word of this salvation is sent out to you.

  42.  Though they found no cause for death, they still asked Pilate to have him killed.

  43.  When they had fulfilled all things that were written about him, they took him down from the tree, and laid him in a tomb.

  44.  But God raised him from the dead,

  45.  We bring you good news of the promise made to the fathers,

  46.  Therefore he says also in another psalm, 'You will not allow your Holy One to see decay.'

  47.  For David, after he had in his own generation served the counsel of God, fell asleep, and was laid with his fathers, and saw decay.

  48.  But he whom God raised up saw no decay.

  49.  Be it known to you therefore, brothers, that through this man is proclaimed to you remission of sins,

  50.  Beware therefore, lest that come on you which is spoken in the prophets:

  51.  So when the Jews went out of the synagogue, the Gentiles begged that these words might be preached to them the next Sabbath.

  52.  The next Sabbath almost the whole city was gathered together to hear the word of God.

  53.  But when the Jews saw the multitudes, they were filled with jealousy, and contradicted the things which were spoken by Paul, and blasphemed.

  54.  As the Gentiles heard this, they were glad, and glorified the word of God. As many as were appointed to eternal life believed.

  55.  The Lord's word was spread abroad throughout all the region.

  56.  But they shook off the dust of their feet against them, and came to Iconium.

  57.  The disciples were filled with joy with the Holy Spirit.

  58.  But the disbelieving Jews stirred up and embittered the souls of the Gentiles against the brothers.

  59.  But the multitude of the city was divided. Part sided with the Jews, and part with the apostles.

  60.  When some of both the Gentiles and the Jews, with their rulers, made a violent attempt to mistreat and stone them,

  61.  There they preached the Good News.

  62.  At Lystra a certain man sat, impotent in his feet, a cripple from his mother's womb, who never had walked.

  63.  He was listening to Paul speaking, who, fastening eyes on him, and seeing that he had faith to be made whole,

  64.  They called Barnabas "Jupiter," and Paul "Mercury," because he was the chief speaker.

  65.  But when the apostles, Barnabas and Paul, heard of it, they tore their clothes, and sprang into the multitude, crying out,

  66.  Even saying these things, they hardly stopped the multitudes from making a sacrifice to them.

  67.  When they had preached the Good News to that city, and had made many disciples, they returned to Lystra, Iconium, and Antioch,

  68.  They passed through Pisidia, and came to Pamphylia.

  69.  When they had spoken the word in Perga, they went down to Attalia.

  70.  From there they sailed to Antioch, from where they had been committed to the grace of God for the work which they had fulfilled.

  71.  They stayed there with the disciples for a long time.

  72.  Some men came down from Judea and taught the brothers, "Unless you are circumcised after the custom of Moses, you can't be saved."

  73.  The apostles and the elders were gathered together to see about this matter.

  74.  God, who knows the heart, testified about them, giving them the Holy Spirit, just like he did to us.

  75.  He made no distinction between us and them, cleansing their hearts by faith.

  76.  But we believe that we are saved through the grace of the Lord Jesus, just as they are."

  77.  All the multitude kept silence, and they listened to Barnabas and Paul reporting what signs and wonders God had done among the nations through them.

  78.  After they were silent, James answered, "Brothers, listen to me.

  79.  Simeon has reported how God first visited the nations, to take out of them a people for his name.

  80.  This agrees with the words of the prophets. As it is written,

  81.  All his works are known to God from eternity.'

  82.  "Therefore my judgment is that we don't trouble those from among the Gentiles who turn to God,

  83.  For Moses from generations of old has in every city those who preach him, being read in the synagogues every Sabbath."

  84.  We have sent therefore Judas and Silas, who themselves will also tell you the same things by word of mouth.

  85.  For it seemed good to the Holy Spirit, and to us, to lay no greater burden on you than these necessary things:

  86.  So, when they were sent off, they came to Antioch. Having gathered the multitude together, they delivered the letter.

  87.  When they had read it, they rejoiced over the encouragement.

  88.  Judas and Silas, also being prophets themselves, encouraged the brothers with many words, and strengthened them.

  89.  After they had spent some time there, they were sent back with greetings from the brothers to the apostles.

  90.  But Paul and Barnabas stayed in Antioch, teaching and preaching the word of the Lord, with many others also.

  91.  Barnabas planned to take John, who was called Mark, with them also.

  92.  Then the contention grew so sharp that they separated from each other. Barnabas took Mark with him, and sailed away to Cyprus,

  93.  He went through Syria and Cilicia, strengthening the assemblies.

  94.  The brothers who were at Lystra and Iconium gave a good testimony about him.

  95.  So the assemblies were strengthened in the faith, and increased in number daily.

  96.  When they had gone through the region of Phrygia and Galatia, they were forbidden by the Holy Spirit to speak the word in Asia.

  97.  When they had come opposite Mysia, they tried to go into Bithynia, but the Spirit didn't allow them.

  98.  Passing by Mysia, they came down to Troas.

  99.  Setting sail therefore from Troas, we made a straight course to Samothrace, and the day following to Neapolis;

 100.  Following Paul and us, she cried out, "These men are servants of the Most High God, who proclaim to us a way of salvation!"

 101.  When they had brought them to the magistrates, they said, "These men, being Jews, are agitating our city,

 102.  The multitude rose up together against them, and the magistrates tore their clothes off of them, and commanded them to be beaten with rods.

 103.  When they had laid many stripes on them, they threw them into prison, charging the jailer to keep them safely,

 104.  But about midnight Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God, and the prisoners were listening to them.

 105.  But Paul cried with a loud voice, saying, "Don't harm yourself, for we are all here!"

 106.  He called for lights and sprang in, and, fell down trembling before Paul and Silas,

 107.  They said, "Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, and you will be saved, you and your household."

 108.  They spoke the word of the Lord to him, and to all who were in his house.

 109.  He took them the same hour of the night, and washed their stripes, and was immediately baptized, he and all his household.

 110.  He brought them up into his house, and set food before them, and rejoiced greatly, with all his household, having believed in God.

 111.  But when it was day, the magistrates sent the sergeants, saying, "Let those men go."

 112.  The jailer reported these words to Paul, saying, "The magistrates have sent to let you go; now therefore come out, and go in peace."

 113.  The sergeants reported these words to the magistrates, and they were afraid when they heard that they were Romans,

 114.  They went out of the prison, and entered into Lydia's house. When they had seen the brothers, they encouraged them, and departed.

 115.  Now when they had passed through Amphipolis and Apollonia, they came to Thessalonica, where there was a Jewish synagogue.

 116.  Paul, as was his custom, went in to them, and for three Sabbath days reasoned with them from the Scriptures,

 117.  Some of them were persuaded, and joined Paul and Silas, of the devout Greeks a great multitude, and not a few of the chief women.

 118.  The multitude and the rulers of the city were troubled when they heard these things.

 119.  When they had taken security from Jason and the rest, they let them go.

 120.  The brothers immediately sent Paul and Silas away by night to Beroea. When they arrived, they went into the Jewish synagogue.

 121.  Many of them therefore believed; also of the prominent Greek women, and not a few men.

 122.  Then the brothers immediately sent out Paul to go as far as to the sea, and Silas and Timothy still stayed there.

 123.  Now while Paul waited for them at Athens, his spirit was provoked within him as he saw the city full of idols.

 124.  So he reasoned in the synagogue with the Jews and the devout persons, and in the marketplace every day with those who met him.

 125.  They took hold of him, and brought him to the Areopagus, saying, "May we know what this new teaching is, which is spoken by you?

 126.  For you bring certain strange things to our ears. We want to know therefore what these things mean."

 127.  Now all the Athenians and the strangers living there spent their time in nothing else, but either to tell or to hear some new thing.

 128.  Paul stood in the middle of the Areopagus, and said, "You men of Athens, I perceive that you are very religious in all things.

 129.  The God who made the world and all things in it, he, being Lord of heaven and earth, doesn't dwell in temples made with hands,

 130.  'For in him we live, and move, and have our being.' As some of your own poets have said, 'For we are also his offspring.'

 131.  The times of ignorance therefore God overlooked. But now he commands that all people everywhere should repent,

 132.  Now when they heard of the resurrection of the dead, some mocked; but others said, "We want to hear you again concerning this."

 133.  Thus Paul went out from among them.

 134.  But certain men joined with him, and believed, among whom also was Dionysius the Areopagite, and a woman named Damaris, and others with them.

 135.  After these things Paul departed from Athens, and came to Corinth.

 136.  He reasoned in the synagogue every Sabbath, and persuaded Jews and Greeks.

 137.  But when Silas and Timothy came down from Macedonia, Paul was compelled by the Spirit, testifying to the Jews that Jesus was the Christ.

 138.  Crispus, the ruler of the synagogue, believed in the Lord with all his house. Many of the Corinthians, when they heard, believed and were baptized.

 139.  The Lord said to Paul in the night by a vision, "Don't be afraid, but speak and don't be silent;

 140.  He lived there a year and six months, teaching the word of God among them.

 141.  But when Gallio was proconsul of Achaia, the Jews with one accord rose up against Paul and brought him before the judgment seat,

 142.  He drove them from the judgment seat.

 143.  He came to Ephesus, and he left them there; but he himself entered into the synagogue, and reasoned with the Jews.

 144.  When they asked him to stay with them a longer time, he declined;

 145.  When he had landed at Caesarea, he went up and greeted the assembly, and went down to Antioch.

 146.  Having spent some time there, he departed, and went through the region of Galatia, and Phrygia, in order, establishing all the disciples.

 147.  Now a certain Jew named Apollos, an Alexandrian by race, an eloquent man, came to Ephesus. He was mighty in the Scriptures.

 148.  It happened that, while Apollos was at Corinth, Paul, having passed through the upper country, came to Ephesus, and found certain disciples.

 149.  He said, "Into what then were you baptized?" They said, "Into John's baptism."

 150.  When they heard this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus.

 151.  When Paul had laid his hands on them, the Holy Spirit came on them, and they spoke with other languages and prophesied.

 152.  They were about twelve men in all.

 153.  He entered into the synagogue, and spoke boldly for a period of three months, reasoning and persuading about the things concerning the Kingdom of God.

 154.  This continued for two years, so that all those who lived in Asia heard the word of the Lord Jesus, both Jews and Greeks.

 155.  God worked special miracles by the hands of Paul,

 156.  There were seven sons of one Sceva, a Jewish chief priest, who did this.

 157.  The evil spirit answered, "Jesus I know, and Paul I know, but who are you?"

 158.  Many also of those who had believed came, confessing, and declaring their deeds.

 159.  So the word of the Lord was growing and becoming mighty.

 160.  Having sent into Macedonia two of those who served him, Timothy and Erastus, he himself stayed in Asia for a while.

 161.  About that time there arose no small stir concerning the Way.

 162.  For a certain man named Demetrius, a silversmith, who made silver shrines of Artemis, brought no little business to the craftsmen,

 163.  When they heard this they were filled with anger, and cried out, saying, "Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!"

 164.  When Paul wanted to enter in to the people, the disciples didn't allow him.

 165.  Certain also of the Asiarchs, being his friends, sent to him and begged him not to venture into the theater.

 166.  Some therefore cried one thing, and some another, for the assembly was in confusion. Most of them didn't know why they had come together.

 167.  Seeing then that these things can't be denied, you ought to be quiet, and to do nothing rash.

 168.  For you have brought these men here, who are neither robbers of temples nor blasphemers of your goddess.

 169.  But if you seek anything about other matters, it will be settled in the regular assembly.

 170.  When he had thus spoken, he dismissed the assembly.

 171.  After the uproar had ceased, Paul sent for the disciples, took leave of them, and departed to go into Macedonia.

 172.  When he had gone through those parts, and had encouraged them with many words, he came into Greece.

 173.  But these had gone ahead, and were waiting for us at Troas.

 174.  We sailed away from Philippi after the days of Unleavened Bread, and came to them at Troas in five days, where we stayed seven days.

 175.  There were many lights in the upper room where we were gathered together.

 176.  Paul went down, and fell upon him, and embracing him said, "Don't be troubled, for his life is in him."

 177.  They brought the boy in alive, and were greatly comforted.

 178.  When he met us at Assos, we took him aboard, and came to Mitylene.

 179.  From Miletus he sent to Ephesus, and called to himself the elders of the assembly.

 180.  Now, behold, I go bound by the Spirit to Jerusalem, not knowing what will happen to me there;

 181.  "Now, behold, I know that you all, among whom I went about preaching the Kingdom of God, will see my face no more.

 182.  Therefore I testify to you this day that I am clean from the blood of all men,

 183.  For I know that after my departure, vicious wolves will enter in among you, not sparing the flock.

 184.  Men will arise from among your own selves, speaking perverse things, to draw away the disciples after them.

 185.  Therefore watch, remembering that for a period of three years I didn't cease to admonish everyone night and day with tears.

 186.  I coveted no one's silver, or gold, or clothing.

 187.  You yourselves know that these hands served my necessities, and those who were with me.

 188.  When he had spoken these things, he knelt down and prayed with them all.

 189.  They all wept a lot, and fell on Paul's neck and kissed him,

 190.  Having found a ship crossing over to Phoenicia, we went aboard, and set sail.

 191.  Having found disciples, we stayed there seven days. These said to Paul through the Spirit, that he should not go up to Jerusalem.

 192.  After saying goodbye to each other, we went on board the ship, and they returned home again.

 193.  When we had finished the voyage from Tyre, we arrived at Ptolemais. We greeted the brothers, and stayed with them one day.

 194.  Now this man had four virgin daughters who prophesied.

 195.  As we stayed there some days, a certain prophet named Agabus came down from Judea.

 196.  When we heard these things, both we and they of that place begged him not to go up to Jerusalem.

 197.  When he would not be persuaded, we ceased, saying, "The Lord's will be done."

 198.  After these days we took up our baggage and went up to Jerusalem.

 199.  Some of the disciples from Caesarea also went with us, bringing one Mnason of Cyprus, an early disciple, with whom we would stay.

 200.  When we had come to Jerusalem, the brothers received us gladly.

 201.  The day following, Paul went in with us to James; and all the elders were present.

 202.  When he had greeted them, he reported one by one the things which God had worked among the Gentiles through his ministry.

 203.  What then? The assembly must certainly meet, for they will hear that you have come.

 204.  Therefore do what we tell you. We have four men who have taken a vow.

 205.  For they had seen Trophimus, the Ephesian, with him in the city, and they supposed that Paul had brought him into the temple.

 206.  All the city was moved, and the people ran together. They seized Paul and dragged him out of the temple. Immediately the doors were shut.

 207.  As they were trying to kill him, news came up to the commanding officer of the regiment that all Jerusalem was in an uproar.

 208.  Immediately he took soldiers and centurions, and ran down to them. They, when they saw the chief captain and the soldiers, stopped beating Paul.

 209.  When he came to the stairs, it happened that he was carried by the soldiers because of the violence of the crowd;

 210.  "Brothers and fathers, listen to the defense which I now make to you."

 211.  When they heard that he spoke to them in the Hebrew language, they were even more quiet. He said,

 212.  I persecuted this Way to the death, binding and delivering into prisons both men and women.

 213.  I fell to the ground, and heard a voice saying to me, 'Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?'

 214.  I answered, 'Who are you, Lord?' He said to me, 'I am Jesus of Nazareth, whom you persecute.'

 215.  "Those who were with me indeed saw the light and were afraid, but they didn't understand the voice of him who spoke to me.

 216.  When I couldn't see for the glory of that light, being led by the hand of those who were with me, I came into Damascus.

 217.  One Ananias, a devout man according to the law, well reported of by all the Jews who lived in Damascus,

 218.  For you will be a witness for him to all men of what you have seen and heard.

 219.  Now why do you wait? Arise, be baptized, and wash away your sins, calling on the name of the Lord.'

 220.  "It happened that, when I had returned to Jerusalem, and while I prayed in the temple, I fell into a trance,

 221.  I said, 'Lord, they themselves know that I imprisoned and beat in every synagogue those who believed in you.

 222.  "He said to me, 'Depart, for I will send you out far from here to the Gentiles.'"

