CHOIR reading sheet - session 12
247 lines, about 30 minutes

Same mic, same room, same gain, same distance as every
other session. One continuous recording. Pause about one
second between lines. If you fluff a line, pause and say
the whole line again - do not stop recording.

Text: World English Bible (public domain).
==============================================================

   1.  He has taken a bag of money with him. He will come home at the full moon."

   2.  With persuasive words, she led him astray. With the flattering of her lips, she seduced him.

   3.  He followed her immediately, as an ox goes to the slaughter, as a fool stepping into a noose.

   4.  Until an arrow strikes through his liver, as a bird hurries to the snare, and doesn't know that it will cost his life.

   5.  Now therefore, sons, listen to me. Pay attention to the words of my mouth.

   6.  Don't let your heart turn to her ways. Don't go astray in her paths,

   7.  Her house is the way to Sheol, going down to the rooms of death.

   8.  Doesn't wisdom cry out? Doesn't understanding raise her voice?

   9.  On the top of high places by the way, where the paths meet, she stands.

  10.  Beside the gates, at the entry of the city, at the entry doors, she cries aloud:

  11.  "To you men, I call! I send my voice to the sons of mankind.

  12.  You simple, understand prudence. You fools, be of an understanding heart.

  13.  Hear, for I will speak excellent things. The opening of my lips is for right things.

  14.  For my mouth speaks truth. Wickedness is an abomination to my lips.

  15.  All the words of my mouth are in righteousness. There is nothing crooked or perverse in them.

  16.  They are all plain to him who understands, right to those who find knowledge.

  17.  Receive my instruction rather than silver; knowledge rather than choice gold.

  18.  For wisdom is better than rubies. All the things that may be desired can't be compared to it.

  19.  "I, wisdom, have made prudence my dwelling. Find out knowledge and discretion.

  20.  Counsel and sound knowledge are mine. I have understanding and power.

  21.  By me kings reign, and princes decree justice.

  22.  By me princes rule; nobles, and all the righteous rulers of the earth.

  23.  I love those who love me. Those who seek me diligently will find me.

  24.  With me are riches, honor, enduring wealth, and prosperity.

  25.  My fruit is better than gold, yes, than fine gold; my yield than choice silver.

  26.  I walk in the way of righteousness, in the midst of the paths of justice;

  27.  That I may give wealth to those who love me. I fill their treasuries.

  28.  I was set up from everlasting, from the beginning, before the earth existed.

  29.  When there were no depths, I was brought forth, when there were no springs abounding with water.

  30.  Before the mountains were settled in place, before the hills, I was brought forth;

  31.  When he established the heavens, I was there; when he set a circle on the surface of the deep,

  32.  Rejoicing in his whole world. My delight was with the sons of men.

  33.  "Now therefore, my sons, listen to me, for blessed are those who keep my ways.

  34.  Hear instruction, and be wise. Don't refuse it.

  35.  Blessed is the man who hears me, watching daily at my gates, waiting at my door posts.

  36.  But he who sins against me wrongs his own soul. All those who hate me love death."

  37.  Wisdom has built her house. She has carved out her seven pillars.

  38.  She has prepared her meat. She has mixed her wine. She has also set her table.

  39.  She has sent out her maidens. She cries from the highest places of the city:

  40.  "Whoever is simple, let him turn in here!" As for him who is void of understanding, she says to him,

  41.  "Come, eat some of my bread, Drink some of the wine which I have mixed!

  42.  Leave your simple ways, and live. Walk in the way of understanding."

  43.  He who corrects a mocker invites insult. He who reproves a wicked man invites abuse.

  44.  Don't reprove a scoffer, lest he hate you. Reprove a wise man, and he will love you.

  45.  Instruct a wise man, and he will be still wiser. Teach a righteous man, and he will increase in learning.

  46.  For by me your days will be multiplied. The years of your life will be increased.

  47.  If you are wise, you are wise for yourself. If you mock, you alone will bear it.

  48.  The foolish woman is loud, Undisciplined, and knows nothing.

  49.  She sits at the door of her house, on a seat in the high places of the city,

  50.  To call to those who pass by, who go straight on their ways,

  51.  "Whoever is simple, let him turn in here." as for him who is void of understanding, she says to him,

  52.  "Stolen water is sweet. Food eaten in secret is pleasant."

  53.  But he doesn't know that the dead are there, that her guests are in the depths of Sheol.

  54.  The proverbs of Solomon. A wise son makes a glad father; but a foolish son brings grief to his mother.

  55.  Treasures of wickedness profit nothing, but righteousness delivers from death.

  56.  He becomes poor who works with a lazy hand, but the hand of the diligent brings wealth.

  57.  He who gathers in summer is a wise son, but he who sleeps during the harvest is a son who causes shame.

  58.  Blessings are on the head of the righteous, but violence covers the mouth of the wicked.

  59.  The memory of the righteous is blessed, but the name of the wicked will rot.

  60.  The wise in heart accept commandments, but a chattering fool will fall.

  61.  He who walks blamelessly walks surely, but he who perverts his ways will be found out.

  62.  One winking with the eye causes sorrow, but a chattering fool will fall.

  63.  The mouth of the righteous is a spring of life, but violence covers the mouth of the wicked.

  64.  Hatred stirs up strife, but love covers all wrongs.

  65.  Wisdom is found on the lips of him who has discernment, but a rod is for the back of him who is void of understanding.

  66.  Wise men lay up knowledge, but the mouth of the foolish is near ruin.

  67.  The rich man's wealth is his strong city. The destruction of the poor is their poverty.

  68.  The labor of the righteous leads to life. The increase of the wicked leads to sin.

  69.  He is in the way of life who heeds correction, but he who forsakes reproof leads others astray.

  70.  He who hides hatred has lying lips. He who utters a slander is a fool.

  71.  In the multitude of words there is no lack of disobedience, but he who restrains his lips does wisely.

  72.  The tongue of the righteous is like choice silver. The heart of the wicked is of little worth.

  73.  The lips of the righteous feed many, but the foolish die for lack of understanding.

  74.  It is a fool's pleasure to do wickedness, but wisdom is a man of understanding's pleasure.

  75.  What the wicked fear, will overtake them, but the desire of the righteous will be granted.

  76.  When the whirlwind passes, the wicked is no more; but the righteous stand firm forever.

  77.  As vinegar to the teeth, and as smoke to the eyes, so is the sluggard to those who send him.

  78.  The prospect of the righteous is joy, but the hope of the wicked will perish.

  79.  The righteous will never be removed, but the wicked will not dwell in the land.

  80.  The mouth of the righteous brings forth wisdom, but the perverse tongue will be cut off.

  81.  The lips of the righteous know what is acceptable, but the mouth of the wicked is perverse.

  82.  When pride comes, then comes shame, but with humility comes wisdom.

  83.  The integrity of the upright shall guide them, but the perverseness of the treacherous shall destroy them.

  84.  Riches don't profit in the day of wrath, but righteousness delivers from death.

  85.  The righteousness of the blameless will direct his way, but the wicked shall fall by his own wickedness.

  86.  The righteousness of the upright shall deliver them, but the unfaithful will be trapped by evil desires.

  87.  When a wicked man dies, hope perishes, and expectation of power comes to nothing.

  88.  A righteous person is delivered out of trouble, and the wicked takes his place.

  89.  With his mouth the godless man destroys his neighbor, but the righteous will be delivered through knowledge.

  90.  When it goes well with the righteous, the city rejoices. When the wicked perish, there is shouting.

  91.  By the blessing of the upright, the city is exalted, but it is overthrown by the mouth of the wicked.

  92.  One who despises his neighbor is void of wisdom, but a man of understanding holds his peace.

  93.  One who brings gossip betrays a confidence, but one who is of a trustworthy spirit is one who keeps a secret.

  94.  Where there is no wise guidance, the nation falls, but in the multitude of counselors there is victory.

  95.  He who is collateral for a stranger will suffer for it, but he who refuses pledges of collateral is secure.

  96.  A gracious woman obtains honor, but violent men obtain riches.

  97.  The merciful man does good to his own soul, but he who is cruel troubles his own flesh.

  98.  Wicked people earn deceitful wages, but one who sows righteousness reaps a sure reward.

  99.  He who is truly righteous gets life. He who pursues evil gets death.

 100.  Most certainly, the evil man will not be unpunished, but the seed of the righteous will be delivered.

 101.  Like a gold ring in a pig's snout, is a beautiful woman who lacks discretion.

 102.  The desire of the righteous is only good. The expectation of the wicked is wrath.

 103.  There is one who scatters, and increases yet more. There is one who withholds more than is appropriate, but gains poverty.

 104.  The liberal soul shall be made fat. He who waters shall be watered also himself.

 105.  People curse someone who withholds grain, but blessing will be on the head of him who sells it.

 106.  He who diligently seeks good seeks favor, but he who searches after evil, it shall come to him.

 107.  He who trusts in his riches will fall, but the righteous shall flourish as the green leaf.

 108.  He who troubles his own house shall inherit the wind. The foolish shall be servant to the wise of heart.

 109.  The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life. He who is wise wins souls.

 110.  Behold, the righteous shall be repaid in the earth; how much more the wicked and the sinner!

 111.  Whoever loves correction loves knowledge, but he who hates reproof is stupid.

 112.  A man shall not be established by wickedness, but the root of the righteous shall not be moved.

 113.  A worthy woman is the crown of her husband, but a disgraceful wife is as rottenness in his bones.

 114.  The thoughts of the righteous are just, but the advice of the wicked is deceitful.

 115.  The words of the wicked are about lying in wait for blood, but the speech of the upright rescues them.

 116.  The wicked are overthrown, and are no more, but the house of the righteous shall stand.

 117.  A man shall be commended according to his wisdom, but he who has a warped mind shall be despised.

 118.  Better is he who is lightly esteemed, and has a servant, than he who honors himself, and lacks bread.

 119.  A righteous man respects the life of his animal, but the tender mercies of the wicked are cruel.

 120.  He who tills his land shall have plenty of bread, but he who chases fantasies is void of understanding.

 121.  The wicked desires the plunder of evil men, but the root of the righteous flourishes.

 122.  An evil man is trapped by sinfulness of lips, but the righteous shall come out of trouble.

 123.  A man shall be satisfied with good by the fruit of his mouth. The work of a man's hands shall be rewarded to him.

 124.  The way of a fool is right in his own eyes, but he who is wise listens to counsel.

 125.  A fool shows his annoyance the same day, but one who overlooks an insult is prudent.

 126.  He who is truthful testifies honestly, but a false witness lies.

 127.  There is one who speaks rashly like the piercing of a sword, but the tongue of the wise heals.

 128.  Truth's lips will be established forever, but a lying tongue is only momentary.

 129.  Deceit is in the heart of those who plot evil, but joy comes to the promoters of peace.

 130.  No mischief shall happen to the righteous, but the wicked shall be filled with evil.

 131.  A prudent man keeps his knowledge, but the hearts of fools proclaim foolishness.

 132.  The hands of the diligent ones shall rule, but laziness ends in slave labor.

 133.  Anxiety in a man's heart weighs it down, but a kind word makes it glad.

 134.  A righteous person is cautious in friendship, but the way of the wicked leads them astray.

 135.  The slothful man doesn't roast his game, but the possessions of diligent men are prized.

 136.  In the way of righteousness is life; in its path there is no death.

 137.  A wise son listens to his father's instruction, but a scoffer doesn't listen to rebuke.

 138.  By the fruit of his lips, a man enjoys good things; but the unfaithful crave violence.

 139.  He who guards his mouth guards his soul. One who opens wide his lips comes to ruin.

 140.  The soul of the sluggard desires, and has nothing, but the desire of the diligent shall be fully satisfied.

 141.  A righteous man hates lies, but a wicked man brings shame and disgrace.

 142.  Righteousness guards the way of integrity, but wickedness overthrows the sinner.

 143.  There are some who pretend to be rich, yet have nothing. There are some who pretend to be poor, yet have great wealth.

 144.  The ransom of a man's life is his riches, but the poor hear no threats.

 145.  The light of the righteous shines brightly, but the lamp of the wicked is snuffed out.

 146.  Pride only breeds quarrels, but with ones who take advice is wisdom.

 147.  Wealth gained dishonestly dwindles away, but he who gathers by hand makes it grow.

 148.  Hope deferred makes the heart sick, but when longing is fulfilled, it is a tree of life.

 149.  Whoever despises instruction will pay for it, but he who respects a command will be rewarded.

 150.  The teaching of the wise is a spring of life, to turn from the snares of death.

 151.  Good understanding wins favor; but the way of the unfaithful is hard.

 152.  Every prudent man acts from knowledge, but a fool exposes folly.

 153.  A wicked messenger falls into trouble, but a trustworthy envoy gains healing.

 154.  Poverty and shame come to him who refuses discipline, but he who heeds correction shall be honored.

 155.  Longing fulfilled is sweet to the soul, but fools detest turning from evil.

 156.  One who walks with wise men grows wise, but a companion of fools suffers harm.

 157.  Misfortune pursues sinners, but prosperity rewards the righteous.

 158.  A good man leaves an inheritance to his children's children, but the wealth of the sinner is stored for the righteous.

 159.  An abundance of food is in poor people's fields, but injustice sweeps it away.

 160.  One who spares the rod hates his son, but one who loves him is careful to discipline him.

 161.  The righteous one eats to the satisfying of his soul, but the belly of the wicked goes hungry.

 162.  Every wise woman builds her house, but the foolish one tears it down with her own hands.

 163.  The fool's talk brings a rod to his back, but the lips of the wise protect them.

 164.  Where no oxen are, the crib is clean, but much increase is by the strength of the ox.

 165.  A truthful witness will not lie, but a false witness pours out lies.

 166.  A scoffer seeks wisdom, and doesn't find it, but knowledge comes easily to a discerning person.

 167.  Stay away from a foolish man, for you won't find knowledge on his lips.

 168.  The wisdom of the prudent is to think about his way, but the folly of fools is deceit.

 169.  Fools mock at making atonement for sins, but among the upright there is good will.

 170.  The heart knows its own bitterness and joy; he will not share these with a stranger.

 171.  The house of the wicked will be overthrown, but the tent of the upright will flourish.

 172.  There is a way which seems right to a man, but in the end it leads to death.

 173.  Even in laughter the heart may be sorrowful, and mirth may end in heaviness.

 174.  The unfaithful will be repaid for his own ways; likewise a good man will be rewarded for his ways.

 175.  A simple man believes everything, but the prudent man carefully considers his ways.

 176.  A wise man fears, and shuns evil, but the fool is hotheaded and reckless.

 177.  He who is quick to become angry will commit folly, and a crafty man is hated.

 178.  The simple inherit folly, but the prudent are crowned with knowledge.

 179.  The evil bow down before the good, and the wicked at the gates of the righteous.

 180.  The poor person is shunned even by his own neighbor, but the rich person has many friends.

 181.  He who despises his neighbor sins, but blessed is he who has pity on the poor.

 182.  Don't they go astray who plot evil? But love and faithfulness belong to those who plan good.

 183.  In all hard work there is profit, but the talk of the lips leads only to poverty.

 184.  The crown of the wise is their riches, but the folly of fools crowns them with folly.

 185.  A truthful witness saves souls, but a false witness is deceitful.

 186.  In the multitude of people is the king's glory, but in the lack of people is the destruction of the prince.

 187.  He who is slow to anger has great understanding, but he who has a quick temper displays folly.

 188.  The life of the body is a heart at peace, but envy rots the bones.

 189.  He who oppresses the poor shows contempt for his Maker, but he who is kind to the needy honors him.

 190.  The wicked is brought down in his calamity, but in death, the righteous has a refuge.

 191.  Wisdom rests in the heart of one who has understanding, and is even made known in the inward part of fools.

 192.  Righteousness exalts a nation, but sin is a disgrace to any people.

 193.  The king's favor is toward a servant who deals wisely, but his wrath is toward one who causes shame.

 194.  A gentle answer turns away wrath, but a harsh word stirs up anger.

 195.  The tongue of the wise commends knowledge, but the mouth of fools gush out folly.

 196.  A gentle tongue is a tree of life, but deceit in it crushes the spirit.

 197.  A fool despises his father's correction, but he who heeds reproof shows prudence.

 198.  In the house of the righteous is much treasure, but the income of the wicked brings trouble.

 199.  The lips of the wise spread knowledge; not so with the heart of fools.

 200.  There is stern discipline for one who forsakes the way: whoever hates reproof shall die.

 201.  A scoffer doesn't love to be reproved; he will not go to the wise.

 202.  A glad heart makes a cheerful face; but an aching heart breaks the spirit.

 203.  The heart of one who has understanding seeks knowledge, but the mouths of fools feed on folly.

 204.  All the days of the afflicted are wretched, but one who has a cheerful heart enjoys a continual feast.

 205.  Better is a dinner of herbs, where love is, than a fattened calf with hatred.

 206.  A wrathful man stirs up contention, but one who is slow to anger appeases strife.

 207.  The way of the sluggard is like a thorn patch, but the path of the upright is a highway.

 208.  A wise son makes a father glad, but a foolish man despises his mother.

 209.  Folly is joy to one who is void of wisdom, but a man of understanding keeps his way straight.

 210.  Where there is no counsel, plans fail; but in a multitude of counselors they are established.

 211.  Joy comes to a man with the reply of his mouth. How good is a word at the right time!

 212.  The path of life leads upward for the wise, to keep him from going downward to Sheol.

 213.  He who is greedy for gain troubles his own house, but he who hates bribes will live.

 214.  The heart of the righteous weighs answers, but the mouth of the wicked gushes out evil.

 215.  The light of the eyes rejoices the heart. Good news gives health to the bones.

 216.  The ear that listens to reproof lives, and will be at home among the wise.

 217.  He who refuses correction despises his own soul, but he who listens to reproof gets understanding.

 218.  Better is a little with righteousness, than great revenues with injustice.

 219.  Inspired judgments are on the lips of the king. He shall not betray his mouth.

 220.  It is an abomination for kings to do wrong, for the throne is established by righteousness.

 221.  Righteous lips are the delight of kings. They value one who speaks the truth.

 222.  The king's wrath is a messenger of death, but a wise man will pacify it.

 223.  In the light of the king's face is life. His favor is like a cloud of the spring rain.

 224.  How much better it is to get wisdom than gold! Yes, to get understanding is to be chosen rather than silver.

 225.  The highway of the upright is to depart from evil. He who keeps his way preserves his soul.

 226.  Pride goes before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall.

 227.  It is better to be of a lowly spirit with the poor, than to divide the plunder with the proud.

 228.  The wise in heart shall be called prudent. Pleasantness of the lips promotes instruction.

 229.  Understanding is a fountain of life to one who has it, but the punishment of fools is their folly.

 230.  The heart of the wise instructs his mouth, and adds learning to his lips.

 231.  Pleasant words are a honeycomb, sweet to the soul, and health to the bones.

 232.  The appetite of the laboring man labors for him; for his mouth urges him on.

 233.  A worthless man devises mischief. His speech is like a scorching fire.

 234.  A perverse man stirs up strife. A whisperer separates close friends.

 235.  A man of violence entices his neighbor, and leads him in a way that is not good.

 236.  One who winks his eyes to plot perversities, one who compresses his lips, is bent on evil.

 237.  Gray hair is a crown of glory. It is attained by a life of righteousness.

 238.  One who is slow to anger is better than the mighty; one who rules his spirit, than he who takes a city.

 239.  Better is a dry morsel with quietness, than a house full of feasting with strife.

 240.  A servant who deals wisely will rule over a son who causes shame, and shall have a part in the inheritance among the brothers.

 241.  An evildoer heeds wicked lips. A liar gives ear to a mischievous tongue.

 242.  Whoever mocks the poor reproaches his Maker. He who is glad at calamity shall not be unpunished.

 243.  Children's children are the crown of old men; the glory of children are their parents.

 244.  Arrogant speech isn't fitting for a fool, much less do lying lips fit a prince.

 245.  A bribe is a precious stone in the eyes of him who gives it; wherever he turns, he prospers.

 246.  He who covers an offense promotes love; but he who repeats a matter separates best friends.

 247.  A rebuke enters deeper into one who has understanding than a hundred lashes into a fool.

