CHOIR reading sheet - session 4
228 lines, about 30 minutes

Same mic, same room, same gain, same distance as every
other session. One continuous recording. Pause about one
second between lines. If you fluff a line, pause and say
the whole line again - do not stop recording.

Text: World English Bible (public domain).
==============================================================

   1.  If anyone desires to do his will, he will know about the teaching, whether it is from God, or if I am speaking from myself.

   2.  Didn't Moses give you the law, and yet none of you keeps the law? Why do you seek to kill me?"

   3.  The multitude answered, "You have a demon! Who seeks to kill you?"

   4.  Jesus answered them, "I did one work, and you all marvel because of it.

   5.  Moses has given you circumcision (not that it is of Moses, but of the fathers), and on the Sabbath you circumcise a boy.

   6.  Don't judge according to appearance, but judge righteous judgment."

   7.  Therefore some of them of Jerusalem said, "Isn't this he whom they seek to kill?

   8.  Behold, he speaks openly, and they say nothing to him. Can it be that the rulers indeed know that this is truly the Christ?

   9.  However we know where this man comes from, but when the Christ comes, no one will know where he comes from."

  10.  I know him, because I am from him, and he sent me."

  11.  They sought therefore to take him; but no one laid a hand on him, because his hour had not yet come.

  12.  The Pharisees heard the multitude murmuring these things concerning him, and the chief priests and the Pharisees sent officers to arrest him.

  13.  Then Jesus said, "I will be with you a little while longer, then I go to him who sent me.

  14.  You will seek me, and won't find me; and where I am, you can't come."

  15.  What is this word that he said, 'You will seek me, and won't find me; and where I am, you can't come'?"

  16.  He who believes in me, as the Scripture has said, from within him will flow rivers of living water."

  17.  Many of the multitude therefore, when they heard these words, said, "This is truly the prophet."

  18.  Others said, "This is the Christ." But some said, "What, does the Christ come out of Galilee?

  19.  Hasn't the Scripture said that the Christ comes of the seed of David, and from Bethlehem, the village where David was?"

  20.  So there arose a division in the multitude because of him.

  21.  Some of them would have arrested him, but no one laid hands on him.

  22.  The officers therefore came to the chief priests and Pharisees, and they said to them, "Why didn't you bring him?"

  23.  The officers answered, "No man ever spoke like this man!"

  24.  The Pharisees therefore answered them, "You aren't also led astray, are you?

  25.  Have any of the rulers believed in him, or of the Pharisees?

  26.  But this multitude that doesn't know the law is accursed."

  27.  Nicodemus (he who came to him by night, being one of them) said to them,

  28.  "Does our law judge a man, unless it first hears from him personally and knows what he does?"

  29.  They answered him, "Are you also from Galilee? Search, and see that no prophet has arisen out of Galilee."

  30.  Everyone went to his own house,

  31.  Now very early in the morning, he came again into the temple, and all the people came to him. He sat down, and taught them.

  32.  The scribes and the Pharisees brought a woman taken in adultery. Having set her in the midst,

  33.  Now in our law, Moses commanded us to stone such. What then do you say about her?"

  34.  Again he stooped down, and with his finger wrote on the ground.

  35.  Jesus, standing up, saw her and said, "Woman, where are your accusers? Did no one condemn you?"

  36.  She said, "No one, Lord." Jesus said, "Neither do I condemn you. Go your way. From now on, sin no more."

  37.  The Pharisees therefore said to him, "You testify about yourself. Your testimony is not valid."

  38.  You judge according to the flesh. I judge no one.

  39.  Even if I do judge, my judgment is true, for I am not alone, but I am with the Father who sent me.

  40.  It's also written in your law that the testimony of two people is valid.

  41.  I am one who testifies about myself, and the Father who sent me testifies about me."

  42.  Jesus spoke these words in the treasury, as he taught in the temple. Yet no one arrested him, because his hour had not yet come.

  43.  The Jews therefore said, "Will he kill himself, that he says, 'Where I am going, you can't come?'"

  44.  He said to them, "You are from beneath. I am from above. You are of this world. I am not of this world.

  45.  They said therefore to him, "Who are you?" Jesus said to them, "Just what I have been saying to you from the beginning.

  46.  They didn't understand that he spoke to them about the Father.

  47.  He who sent me is with me. The Father hasn't left me alone, for I always do the things that are pleasing to him."

  48.  As he spoke these things, many believed in him.

  49.  Jesus therefore said to those Jews who had believed him, "If you remain in my word, then you are truly my disciples.

  50.  You will know the truth, and the truth will make you free."

  51.  They answered him, "We are Abraham's seed, and have never been in bondage to anyone. How do you say, 'You will be made free?'"

  52.  Jesus answered them, "Most certainly I tell you, everyone who commits sin is the bondservant of sin.

  53.  A bondservant doesn't live in the house forever. A son remains forever.

  54.  If therefore the Son makes you free, you will be free indeed.

  55.  I know that you are Abraham's seed, yet you seek to kill me, because my word finds no place in you.

  56.  I say the things which I have seen with my Father; and you also do the things which you have seen with your father."

  57.  They answered him, "Our father is Abraham." Jesus said to them, "If you were Abraham's children, you would do the works of Abraham.

  58.  But now you seek to kill me, a man who has told you the truth, which I heard from God. Abraham didn't do this.

  59.  You do the works of your father." They said to him, "We were not born of sexual immorality. We have one Father, God."

  60.  Why don't you understand my speech? Because you can't hear my word.

  61.  But because I tell the truth, you don't believe me.

  62.  Which of you convicts me of sin? If I tell the truth, why do you not believe me?

  63.  He who is of God hears the words of God. For this cause you don't hear, because you are not of God."

  64.  Then the Jews answered him, "Don't we say well that you are a Samaritan, and have a demon?"

  65.  Jesus answered, "I don't have a demon, but I honor my Father, and you dishonor me.

  66.  But I don't seek my own glory. There is one who seeks and judges.

  67.  Most certainly, I tell you, if a person keeps my word, he will never see death."

  68.  Are you greater than our father, Abraham, who died? The prophets died. Who do you make yourself out to be?"

  69.  Your father Abraham rejoiced to see my day. He saw it, and was glad."

  70.  The Jews therefore said to him, "You are not yet fifty years old, and have you seen Abraham?"

  71.  Jesus said to them, "Most certainly, I tell you, before Abraham came into existence, I AM."

  72.  As he passed by, he saw a man blind from birth.

  73.  His disciples asked him, "Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he was born blind?"

  74.  Jesus answered, "Neither did this man sin, nor his parents; but, that the works of God might be revealed in him.

  75.  I must work the works of him who sent me, while it is day. The night is coming, when no one can work.

  76.  While I am in the world, I am the light of the world."

  77.  When he had said this, he spat on the ground, made mud with the saliva, anointed the blind man's eyes with the mud,

  78.  The neighbors therefore, and those who saw that he was blind before, said, "Isn't this he who sat and begged?"

  79.  Others were saying, "It is he." Still others were saying, "He looks like him." He said, "I am he."

  80.  They therefore were asking him, "How were your eyes opened?"

  81.  Then they asked him, "Where is he?" He said, "I don't know."

  82.  They brought him who had been blind to the Pharisees.

  83.  It was a Sabbath when Jesus made the mud and opened his eyes.

  84.  Therefore they asked the blind man again, "What do you say about him, because he opened your eyes?" He said, "He is a prophet."

  85.  His parents answered them, "We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind;

  86.  Therefore his parents said, "He is of age. Ask him."

  87.  He therefore answered, "I don't know if he is a sinner. One thing I do know: that though I was blind, now I see."

  88.  They said to him again, "What did he do to you? How did he open your eyes?"

  89.  They insulted him and said, "You are his disciple, but we are disciples of Moses.

  90.  We know that God has spoken to Moses. But as for this man, we don't know where he comes from."

  91.  The man answered them, "How amazing! You don't know where he comes from, yet he opened my eyes.

  92.  We know that God doesn't listen to sinners, but if anyone is a worshipper of God, and does his will, he listens to him.

  93.  Since the world began it has never been heard of that anyone opened the eyes of someone born blind.

  94.  If this man were not from God, he could do nothing."

  95.  They answered him, "You were altogether born in sins, and do you teach us?" They threw him out.

  96.  Jesus heard that they had thrown him out, and finding him, he said, "Do you believe in the Son of God?"

  97.  He answered, "Who is he, Lord, that I may believe in him?"

  98.  Jesus said to him, "You have both seen him, and it is he who speaks with you."

  99.  He said, "Lord, I believe!" and he worshiped him.

 100.  Jesus said, "I came into this world for judgment, that those who don't see may see; and that those who see may become blind."

 101.  Those of the Pharisees who were with him heard these things, and said to him, "Are we also blind?"

 102.  Jesus said to them, "If you were blind, you would have no sin; but now you say, 'We see.' Therefore your sin remains.

 103.  But one who enters in by the door is the shepherd of the sheep.

 104.  The gatekeeper opens the gate for him, and the sheep listen to his voice. He calls his own sheep by name, and leads them out.

 105.  Whenever he brings out his own sheep, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him, for they know his voice.

 106.  They will by no means follow a stranger, but will flee from him; for they don't know the voice of strangers."

 107.  Jesus spoke this parable to them, but they didn't understand what he was telling them.

 108.  Jesus therefore said to them again, "Most certainly, I tell you, I am the sheep's door.

 109.  All who came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep didn't listen to them.

 110.  I am the door. If anyone enters in by me, he will be saved, and will go in and go out, and will find pasture.

 111.  The thief only comes to steal, kill, and destroy. I came that they may have life, and may have it abundantly.

 112.  I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep.

 113.  The hired hand flees because he is a hired hand, and doesn't care for the sheep.

 114.  I am the good shepherd. I know my own, and I'm known by my own;

 115.  Therefore the Father loves me, because I lay down my life, that I may take it again.

 116.  Therefore a division arose again among the Jews because of these words.

 117.  Many of them said, "He has a demon, and is insane! Why do you listen to him?"

 118.  It was the Feast of the Dedication at Jerusalem.

 119.  It was winter, and Jesus was walking in the temple, in Solomon's porch.

 120.  Jesus answered them, "I told you, and you don't believe. The works that I do in my Father's name, these testify about me.

 121.  But you don't believe, because you are not of my sheep, as I told you.

 122.  My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me.

 123.  I give eternal life to them. They will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand.

 124.  My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all. No one is able to snatch them out of my Father's hand.

 125.  I and the Father are one."

 126.  Therefore Jews took up stones again to stone him.

 127.  Jesus answered them, "I have shown you many good works from my Father. For which of those works do you stone me?"

 128.  The Jews answered him, "We don't stone you for a good work, but for blasphemy: because you, being a man, make yourself God."

 129.  Jesus answered them, "Isn't it written in your law, 'I said, you are gods?'

 130.  If he called them gods, to whom the word of God came (and the Scripture can't be broken),

 131.  If I don't do the works of my Father, don't believe me.

 132.  They sought again to seize him, and he went out of their hand.

 133.  He went away again beyond the Jordan into the place where John was baptizing at first, and there he stayed.

 134.  Many came to him. They said, "John indeed did no sign, but everything that John said about this man is true."

 135.  Many believed in him there.

 136.  Now a certain man was sick, Lazarus from Bethany, of the village of Mary and her sister, Martha.

 137.  It was that Mary who had anointed the Lord with ointment, and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother, Lazarus, was sick.

 138.  The sisters therefore sent to him, saying, "Lord, behold, he for whom you have great affection is sick."

 139.  Now Jesus loved Martha, and her sister, and Lazarus.

 140.  When therefore he heard that he was sick, he stayed two days in the place where he was.

 141.  Then after this he said to the disciples, "Let's go into Judea again."

 142.  The disciples told him, "Rabbi, the Jews were just trying to stone you, and are you going there again?"

 143.  But if a man walks in the night, he stumbles, because the light isn't in him."

 144.  The disciples therefore said, "Lord, if he has fallen asleep, he will recover."

 145.  Now Jesus had spoken of his death, but they thought that he spoke of taking rest in sleep.

 146.  So Jesus said to them plainly then, "Lazarus is dead.

 147.  I am glad for your sakes that I was not there, so that you may believe. Nevertheless, let's go to him."

 148.  Thomas therefore, who is called Didymus, said to his fellow disciples, "Let's go also, that we may die with him."

 149.  So when Jesus came, he found that he had been in the tomb four days already.

 150.  Now Bethany was near Jerusalem, about fifteen stadia away.

 151.  Many of the Jews had joined the women around Martha and Mary, to console them concerning their brother.

 152.  Then when Martha heard that Jesus was coming, she went and met him, but Mary stayed in the house.

 153.  Therefore Martha said to Jesus, "Lord, if you would have been here, my brother wouldn't have died.

 154.  Even now I know that, whatever you ask of God, God will give you."

 155.  Jesus said to her, "Your brother will rise again."

 156.  Martha said to him, "I know that he will rise again in the resurrection at the last day."

 157.  Jesus said to her, "I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me will still live, even if he dies.

 158.  Whoever lives and believes in me will never die. Do you believe this?"

 159.  She said to him, "Yes, Lord. I have come to believe that you are the Christ, God's Son, he who comes into the world."

 160.  When she had said this, she went away, and called Mary, her sister, secretly, saying, "The Teacher is here, and is calling you."

 161.  When she heard this, she arose quickly, and went to him.

 162.  Now Jesus had not yet come into the village, but was in the place where Martha met him.

 163.  When Jesus therefore saw her weeping, and the Jews weeping who came with her, he groaned in the spirit, and was troubled,

 164.  The Jews therefore said, "See how much affection he had for him!"

 165.  Some of them said, "Couldn't this man, who opened the eyes of him who was blind, have also kept this man from dying?"

 166.  Jesus therefore, again groaning in himself, came to the tomb. Now it was a cave, and a stone lay against it.

 167.  Jesus said to her, "Didn't I tell you that if you believed, you would see God's glory?"

 168.  When he had said this, he cried with a loud voice, "Lazarus, come out!"

 169.  Therefore many of the Jews, who came to Mary and saw what Jesus did, believed in him.

 170.  But some of them went away to the Pharisees, and told them the things which Jesus had done.

 171.  The chief priests therefore and the Pharisees gathered a council, and said, "What are we doing? For this man does many signs.

 172.  But a certain one of them, Caiaphas, being high priest that year, said to them, "You know nothing at all,

 173.  Now he didn't say this of himself, but being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus would die for the nation,

 174.  So from that day forward they took counsel that they might put him to death.

 175.  Now the Passover of the Jews was at hand. Many went up from the country to Jerusalem before the Passover, to purify themselves.

 176.  Now the chief priests and the Pharisees had commanded that if anyone knew where he was, he should report it, that they might seize him.

 177.  Then six days before the Passover, Jesus came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, who had been dead, whom he raised from the dead.

 178.  So they made him a supper there. Martha served, but Lazarus was one of those who sat at the table with him.

 179.  Then Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, one of his disciples, who would betray him, said,

 180.  "Why wasn't this ointment sold for three hundred denarii, and given to the poor?"

 181.  But Jesus said, "Leave her alone. She has kept this for the day of my burial.

 182.  For you always have the poor with you, but you don't always have me."

 183.  But the chief priests conspired to put Lazarus to death also,

 184.  On the next day a great multitude had come to the feast. When they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem,

 185.  Jesus, having found a young donkey, sat on it. As it is written,

 186.  "Don't be afraid, daughter of Zion. Behold, your King comes, sitting on a donkey's colt."

 187.  The multitude therefore that was with him when he called Lazarus out of the tomb, and raised him from the dead, was testifying about it.

 188.  For this cause also the multitude went and met him, because they heard that he had done this sign.

 189.  The Pharisees therefore said among themselves, "See how you accomplish nothing. Behold, the world has gone after him."

 190.  Now there were certain Greeks among those that went up to worship at the feast.

 191.  These, therefore, came to Philip, who was from Bethsaida of Galilee, and asked him, saying, "Sir, we want to see Jesus."

 192.  Philip came and told Andrew, and in turn, Andrew came with Philip, and they told Jesus.

 193.  Jesus answered them, "The time has come for the Son of Man to be glorified.

 194.  He who loves his life will lose it. He who hates his life in this world will keep it to eternal life.

 195.  "Now my soul is troubled. What shall I say? 'Father, save me from this time?' But for this cause I came to this time.

 196.  Father, glorify your name!" Then there came a voice out of the sky, saying, "I have both glorified it, and will glorify it again."

 197.  The multitude therefore, who stood by and heard it, said that it had thundered. Others said, "An angel has spoken to him."

 198.  Jesus answered, "This voice hasn't come for my sake, but for your sakes.

 199.  Now is the judgment of this world. Now the prince of this world will be cast out.

 200.  And I, if I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all people to myself."

 201.  But he said this, signifying by what kind of death he should die.

 202.  But though he had done so many signs before them, yet they didn't believe in him,

 203.  For this cause they couldn't believe, for Isaiah said again,

 204.  Isaiah said these things when he saw his glory, and spoke of him.

 205.  Jesus cried out and said, "Whoever believes in me, believes not in me, but in him who sent me.

 206.  He who sees me sees him who sent me.

 207.  I have come as a light into the world, that whoever believes in me may not remain in the darkness.

 208.  I know that his commandment is eternal life. The things therefore which I speak, even as the Father has said to me, so I speak."

 209.  During supper, the devil having already put into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, to betray him,

 210.  Jesus, knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands, and that he came forth from God, and was going to God,

 211.  Then he came to Simon Peter. He said to him, "Lord, do you wash my feet?"

 212.  Jesus answered him, "You don't know what I am doing now, but you will understand later."

 213.  Peter said to him, "You will never wash my feet!" Jesus answered him, "If I don't wash you, you have no part with me."

 214.  Simon Peter said to him, "Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head!"

 215.  For he knew him who would betray him, therefore he said, "You are not all clean."

 216.  You call me, 'Teacher' and 'Lord.' You say so correctly, for so I am.

 217.  If I then, the Lord and the Teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet.

 218.  For I have given you an example, that you also should do as I have done to you.

 219.  Most certainly I tell you, a servant is not greater than his lord, neither one who is sent greater than he who sent him.

 220.  If you know these things, blessed are you if you do them.

 221.  From now on, I tell you before it happens, that when it happens, you may believe that I am he.

 222.  Most certainly I tell you, he who receives whomever I send, receives me; and he who receives me, receives him who sent me."

 223.  When Jesus had said this, he was troubled in spirit, and testified, "Most certainly I tell you that one of you will betray me."

 224.  The disciples looked at one another, perplexed about whom he spoke.

 225.  One of his disciples, whom Jesus loved, was at the table, leaning against Jesus' breast.

 226.  Simon Peter therefore beckoned to him, and said to him, "Tell us who it is of whom he speaks."

 227.  He, leaning back, as he was, on Jesus' breast, asked him, "Lord, who is it?"

 228.  After the piece of bread, then Satan entered into him. Then Jesus said to him, "What you do, do quickly."

