CHOIR reading sheet - session 3
230 lines, about 30 minutes

Same mic, same room, same gain, same distance as every
other session. One continuous recording. Pause about one
second between lines. If you fluff a line, pause and say
the whole line again - do not stop recording.

Text: World English Bible (public domain).
==============================================================

   1.  When they heard that he was alive, and had been seen by her, they disbelieved.

   2.  After these things he was revealed in another form to two of them, as they walked, on their way into the country.

   3.  They went away and told it to the rest. They didn't believe them, either.

   4.  He said to them, "Go into all the world, and preach the Good News to the whole creation.

   5.  He who believes and is baptized will be saved; but he who disbelieves will be condemned.

   6.  These signs will accompany those who believe: in my name they will cast out demons; they will speak with new languages;

   7.  So then the Lord, after he had spoken to them, was received up into heaven, and sat down at the right hand of God.

   8.  They went out, and preached everywhere, the Lord working with them, and confirming the word by the signs that followed. Amen.

   9.  In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.

  10.  The same was in the beginning with God.

  11.  All things were made through him. Without him was not anything made that has been made.

  12.  In him was life, and the life was the light of men.

  13.  The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness hasn't overcome it.

  14.  There came a man, sent from God, whose name was John.

  15.  The same came as a witness, that he might testify about the light, that all might believe through him.

  16.  He was not the light, but was sent that he might testify about the light.

  17.  The true light that enlightens everyone was coming into the world.

  18.  He was in the world, and the world was made through him, and the world didn't recognize him.

  19.  He came to his own, and those who were his own didn't receive him.

  20.  But as many as received him, to them he gave the right to become God's children, to those who believe in his name:

  21.  From his fullness we all received grace upon grace.

  22.  For the law was given through Moses. Grace and truth were realized through Jesus Christ.

  23.  No one has seen God at any time. The one and only Son, who is in the bosom of the Father, he has declared him.

  24.  This is John's testimony, when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, "Who are you?"

  25.  He declared, and didn't deny, but he declared, "I am not the Christ."

  26.  They asked him, "What then? Are you Elijah?" He said, "I am not." "Are you the prophet?" He answered, "No."

  27.  He said, "I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness, 'Make straight the way of the Lord,' as Isaiah the prophet said."

  28.  The ones who had been sent were from the Pharisees.

  29.  They asked him, "Why then do you baptize, if you are not the Christ, nor Elijah, nor the prophet?"

  30.  John answered them, "I baptize in water, but among you stands one whom you don't know.

  31.  He is the one who comes after me, who is preferred before me, whose sandal strap I'm not worthy to loosen."

  32.  These things were done in Bethany beyond the Jordan, where John was baptizing.

  33.  The next day, he saw Jesus coming to him, and said, "Behold, the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world!

  34.  This is he of whom I said, 'After me comes a man who is preferred before me, for he was before me.'

  35.  I didn't know him, but for this reason I came baptizing in water: that he would be revealed to Israel."

  36.  John testified, saying, "I have seen the Spirit descending like a dove out of heaven, and it remained on him.

  37.  I have seen, and have testified that this is the Son of God."

  38.  Again, the next day, John was standing with two of his disciples,

  39.  The two disciples heard him speak, and they followed Jesus.

  40.  One of the two who heard John, and followed him, was Andrew, Simon Peter's brother.

  41.  He first found his own brother, Simon, and said to him, "We have found the Messiah!" (which is, being interpreted, Christ).

  42.  On the next day, he was determined to go out into Galilee, and he found Philip. Jesus said to him, "Follow me."

  43.  Now Philip was from Bethsaida, of the city of Andrew and Peter.

  44.  Nathanael said to him, "Can any good thing come out of Nazareth?" Philip said to him, "Come and see."

  45.  Jesus saw Nathanael coming to him, and said about him, "Behold, an Israelite indeed, in whom is no deceit!"

  46.  Nathanael answered him, "Rabbi, you are the Son of God! You are King of Israel!"

  47.  Jesus answered him, "Because I told you, 'I saw you underneath the fig tree,' do you believe? You will see greater things than these!"

  48.  The third day, there was a marriage in Cana of Galilee. Jesus' mother was there.

  49.  Jesus also was invited, with his disciples, to the marriage.

  50.  When the wine ran out, Jesus' mother said to him, "They have no wine."

  51.  Jesus said to her, "Woman, what does that have to do with you and me? My hour has not yet come."

  52.  His mother said to the servants, "Whatever he says to you, do it."

  53.  Now there were six water pots of stone set there after the Jews' way of purifying, containing two or three metretes apiece.

  54.  Jesus said to them, "Fill the water pots with water." They filled them up to the brim.

  55.  He said to them, "Now draw some out, and take it to the ruler of the feast." So they took it.

  56.  This beginning of his signs Jesus did in Cana of Galilee, and revealed his glory; and his disciples believed in him.

  57.  After this, he went down to Capernaum, he, and his mother, his brothers, and his disciples; and they stayed there a few days.

  58.  The Passover of the Jews was at hand, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.

  59.  He found in the temple those who sold oxen, sheep, and doves, and the changers of money sitting.

  60.  To those who sold the doves, he said, "Take these things out of here! Don't make my Father's house a marketplace!"

  61.  His disciples remembered that it was written, "Zeal for your house will eat me up."

  62.  The Jews therefore answered him, "What sign do you show us, seeing that you do these things?"

  63.  Jesus answered them, "Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up."

  64.  The Jews therefore said, "It took forty-six years to build this temple! Will you raise it up in three days?"

  65.  But he spoke of the temple of his body.

  66.  Now when he was in Jerusalem at the Passover, during the feast, many believed in his name, observing his signs which he did.

  67.  But Jesus didn't trust himself to them, because he knew everyone,

  68.  Now there was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews.

  69.  Jesus answered him, "Most certainly, I tell you, unless one is born anew, he can't see the Kingdom of God."

  70.  Jesus answered, "Most certainly I tell you, unless one is born of water and spirit, he can't enter into the Kingdom of God!

  71.  That which is born of the flesh is flesh. That which is born of the Spirit is spirit.

  72.  Don't marvel that I said to you, 'You must be born anew.'

  73.  Nicodemus answered him, "How can these things be?"

  74.  Jesus answered him, "Are you the teacher of Israel, and don't understand these things?

  75.  Most certainly I tell you, we speak that which we know, and testify of that which we have seen, and you don't receive our witness.

  76.  If I told you earthly things and you don't believe, how will you believe if I tell you heavenly things?

  77.  No one has ascended into heaven, but he who descended out of heaven, the Son of Man, who is in heaven.

  78.  As Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up,

  79.  For God didn't send his Son into the world to judge the world, but that the world should be saved through him.

  80.  For everyone who does evil hates the light, and doesn't come to the light, lest his works would be exposed.

  81.  But he who does the truth comes to the light, that his works may be revealed, that they have been done in God."

  82.  After these things, Jesus came with his disciples into the land of Judea. He stayed there with them, and baptized.

  83.  John also was baptizing in Enon near Salim, because there was much water there. They came, and were baptized.

  84.  For John was not yet thrown into prison.

  85.  There arose therefore a questioning on the part of John's disciples with some Jews about purification.

  86.  John answered, "A man can receive nothing, unless it has been given him from heaven.

  87.  You yourselves testify that I said, 'I am not the Christ,' but, 'I have been sent before him.'

  88.  He must increase, but I must decrease.

  89.  What he has seen and heard, of that he testifies; and no one receives his witness.

  90.  He who has received his witness has set his seal to this, that God is true.

  91.  For he whom God has sent speaks the words of God; for God gives the Spirit without measure.

  92.  The Father loves the Son, and has given all things into his hand.

  93.  Therefore when the Lord knew that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus was making and baptizing more disciples than John

  94.  (although Jesus himself didn't baptize, but his disciples),

  95.  He needed to pass through Samaria.

  96.  So he came to a city of Samaria, called Sychar, near the parcel of ground that Jacob gave to his son, Joseph.

  97.  Jacob's well was there. Jesus therefore, being tired from his journey, sat down by the well. It was about the sixth hour.

  98.  A woman of Samaria came to draw water. Jesus said to her, "Give me a drink."

  99.  For his disciples had gone away into the city to buy food.

 100.  The woman said to him, "Sir, you have nothing to draw with, and the well is deep. From where then have you that living water?

 101.  Are you greater than our father, Jacob, who gave us the well, and drank of it himself, as did his children, and his livestock?"

 102.  Jesus answered her, "Everyone who drinks of this water will thirst again,

 103.  The woman said to him, "Sir, give me this water, so that I don't get thirsty, neither come all the way here to draw."

 104.  Jesus said to her, "Go, call your husband, and come here."

 105.  The woman answered, "I have no husband." Jesus said to her, "You said well, 'I have no husband,'

 106.  The woman said to him, "Sir, I perceive that you are a prophet.

 107.  Our fathers worshiped in this mountain, and you Jews say that in Jerusalem is the place where people ought to worship."

 108.  Jesus said to her, "Woman, believe me, the hour comes, when neither in this mountain, nor in Jerusalem, will you worship the Father.

 109.  You worship that which you don't know. We worship that which we know; for salvation is from the Jews.

 110.  God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship in spirit and truth."

 111.  Jesus said to her, "I am he, the one who speaks to you."

 112.  So the woman left her water pot, and went away into the city, and said to the people,

 113.  "Come, see a man who told me everything that I did. Can this be the Christ?"

 114.  They went out of the city, and were coming to him.

 115.  In the meanwhile, the disciples urged him, saying, "Rabbi, eat."

 116.  But he said to them, "I have food to eat that you don't know about."

 117.  The disciples therefore said one to another, "Has anyone brought him something to eat?"

 118.  Jesus said to them, "My food is to do the will of him who sent me, and to accomplish his work.

 119.  He who reaps receives wages, and gathers fruit to eternal life; that both he who sows and he who reaps may rejoice together.

 120.  For in this the saying is true, 'One sows, and another reaps.'

 121.  I sent you to reap that for which you haven't labored. Others have labored, and you have entered into their labor."

 122.  So when the Samaritans came to him, they begged him to stay with them. He stayed there two days.

 123.  Many more believed because of his word.

 124.  After the two days he went out from there and went into Galilee.

 125.  For Jesus himself testified that a prophet has no honor in his own country.

 126.  Jesus therefore said to him, "Unless you see signs and wonders, you will in no way believe."

 127.  The nobleman said to him, "Sir, come down before my child dies."

 128.  Jesus said to him, "Go your way. Your son lives." The man believed the word that Jesus spoke to him, and he went his way.

 129.  As he was now going down, his servants met him and reported, saying "Your child lives!"

 130.  This is again the second sign that Jesus did, having come out of Judea into Galilee.

 131.  After these things, there was a feast of the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.

 132.  Now in Jerusalem by the sheep gate, there is a pool, which is called in Hebrew, "Bethesda," having five porches.

 133.  In these lay a great multitude of those who were sick, blind, lame, or paralyzed, waiting for the moving of the water;

 134.  A certain man was there, who had been sick for thirty-eight years.

 135.  Jesus said to him, "Arise, take up your mat, and walk."

 136.  Immediately, the man was made well, and took up his mat and walked. Now it was the Sabbath on that day.

 137.  So the Jews said to him who was cured, "It is the Sabbath. It is not lawful for you to carry the mat."

 138.  He answered them, "He who made me well, the same said to me, 'Take up your mat, and walk.'"

 139.  Then they asked him, "Who is the man who said to you, 'Take up your mat, and walk'?"

 140.  But he who was healed didn't know who it was, for Jesus had withdrawn, a crowd being in the place.

 141.  The man went away, and told the Jews that it was Jesus who had made him well.

 142.  For this cause the Jews persecuted Jesus, and sought to kill him, because he did these things on the Sabbath.

 143.  But Jesus answered them, "My Father is still working, so I am working, too."

 144.  For as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, even so the Son also gives life to whom he desires.

 145.  For the Father judges no one, but he has given all judgment to the Son,

 146.  For as the Father has life in himself, even so he gave to the Son also to have life in himself.

 147.  He also gave him authority to execute judgment, because he is a son of man.

 148.  Don't marvel at this, for the hour comes, in which all that are in the tombs will hear his voice,

 149.  "If I testify about myself, my witness is not valid.

 150.  It is another who testifies about me. I know that the testimony which he testifies about me is true.

 151.  You have sent to John, and he has testified to the truth.

 152.  But the testimony which I receive is not from man. However, I say these things that you may be saved.

 153.  He was the burning and shining lamp, and you were willing to rejoice for a while in his light.

 154.  The Father himself, who sent me, has testified about me. You have neither heard his voice at any time, nor seen his form.

 155.  You don't have his word living in you; because you don't believe him whom he sent.

 156.  "You search the Scriptures, because you think that in them you have eternal life; and these are they which testify about me.

 157.  Yet you will not come to me, that you may have life.

 158.  I don't receive glory from men.

 159.  But I know you, that you don't have God's love in yourselves.

 160.  I have come in my Father's name, and you don't receive me. If another comes in his own name, you will receive him.

 161.  How can you believe, who receive glory from one another, and you don't seek the glory that comes from the only God?

 162.  "Don't think that I will accuse you to the Father. There is one who accuses you, even Moses, on whom you have set your hope.

 163.  For if you believed Moses, you would believe me; for he wrote about me.

 164.  But if you don't believe his writings, how will you believe my words?"

 165.  After these things, Jesus went away to the other side of the sea of Galilee, which is also called the Sea of Tiberias.

 166.  A great multitude followed him, because they saw his signs which he did on those who were sick.

 167.  Jesus went up into the mountain, and he sat there with his disciples.

 168.  Now the Passover, the feast of the Jews, was at hand.

 169.  This he said to test him, for he himself knew what he would do.

 170.  Philip answered him, "Two hundred denarii worth of bread is not sufficient for them, that everyone of them may receive a little."

 171.  One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, said to him,

 172.  "There is a boy here who has five barley loaves and two fish, but what are these among so many?"

 173.  Jesus said, "Have the people sit down." Now there was much grass in that place. So the men sat down, in number about five thousand.

 174.  When they were filled, he said to his disciples, "Gather up the broken pieces which are left over, that nothing be lost."

 175.  When therefore the people saw the sign which Jesus did, they said, "This is truly the prophet who comes into the world."

 176.  Jesus therefore, perceiving that they were about to come and take him by force, to make him king, withdrew again to the mountain by himself.

 177.  When evening came, his disciples went down to the sea,

 178.  The sea was tossed by a great wind blowing.

 179.  But he said to them, "It is I. Don't be afraid."

 180.  They were willing therefore to receive him into the boat. Immediately the boat was at the land where they were going.

 181.  However boats from Tiberias came near to the place where they ate the bread after the Lord had given thanks.

 182.  When the multitude therefore saw that Jesus wasn't there, nor his disciples, they themselves got into the boats, and came to Capernaum, seeking Jesus.

 183.  When they found him on the other side of the sea, they asked him, "Rabbi, when did you come here?"

 184.  They said therefore to him, "What must we do, that we may work the works of God?"

 185.  Jesus answered them, "This is the work of God, that you believe in him whom he has sent."

 186.  They said therefore to him, "What then do you do for a sign, that we may see, and believe you? What work do you do?

 187.  Our fathers ate the manna in the wilderness. As it is written, 'He gave them bread out of heaven to eat.'"

 188.  For the bread of God is that which comes down out of heaven, and gives life to the world."

 189.  They said therefore to him, "Lord, always give us this bread."

 190.  But I told you that you have seen me, and yet you don't believe.

 191.  All those whom the Father gives me will come to me. He who comes to me I will in no way throw out.

 192.  For I have come down from heaven, not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me.

 193.  The Jews therefore murmured concerning him, because he said, "I am the bread which came down out of heaven."

 194.  Therefore Jesus answered them, "Don't murmur among yourselves.

 195.  No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him, and I will raise him up in the last day.

 196.  Not that anyone has seen the Father, except he who is from God. He has seen the Father.

 197.  Most certainly, I tell you, he who believes in me has eternal life.

 198.  I am the bread of life.

 199.  Your fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, and they died.

 200.  This is the bread which comes down out of heaven, that anyone may eat of it and not die.

 201.  The Jews therefore contended with one another, saying, "How can this man give us his flesh to eat?"

 202.  He who eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day.

 203.  For my flesh is food indeed, and my blood is drink indeed.

 204.  He who eats my flesh and drinks my blood lives in me, and I in him.

 205.  He said these things in the synagogue, as he taught in Capernaum.

 206.  Therefore many of his disciples, when they heard this, said, "This is a hard saying! Who can listen to it?"

 207.  But Jesus knowing in himself that his disciples murmured at this, said to them, "Does this cause you to stumble?

 208.  Then what if you would see the Son of Man ascending to where he was before?

 209.  It is the spirit who gives life. The flesh profits nothing. The words that I speak to you are spirit, and are life.

 210.  At this, many of his disciples went back, and walked no more with him.

 211.  Jesus said therefore to the twelve, "You don't also want to go away, do you?"

 212.  Simon Peter answered him, "Lord, to whom would we go? You have the words of eternal life.

 213.  We have come to believe and know that you are the Christ, the Son of the living God."

 214.  Jesus answered them, "Didn't I choose you, the twelve, and one of you is a devil?"

 215.  Now he spoke of Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot, for it was he who would betray him, being one of the twelve.

 216.  After these things, Jesus was walking in Galilee, for he wouldn't walk in Judea, because the Jews sought to kill him.

 217.  Now the feast of the Jews, the Feast of Booths, was at hand.

 218.  His brothers therefore said to him, "Depart from here, and go into Judea, that your disciples also may see your works which you do.

 219.  For no one does anything in secret, and himself seeks to be known openly. If you do these things, reveal yourself to the world."

 220.  For even his brothers didn't believe in him.

 221.  Jesus therefore said to them, "My time has not yet come, but your time is always ready.

 222.  The world can't hate you, but it hates me, because I testify about it, that its works are evil.

 223.  You go up to the feast. I am not yet going up to this feast, because my time is not yet fulfilled."

 224.  Having said these things to them, he stayed in Galilee.

 225.  But when his brothers had gone up to the feast, then he also went up, not publicly, but as it were in secret.

 226.  The Jews therefore sought him at the feast, and said, "Where is he?"

 227.  Yet no one spoke openly of him for fear of the Jews.

 228.  But when it was now the midst of the feast, Jesus went up into the temple and taught.

 229.  The Jews therefore marveled, saying, "How does this man know letters, having never been educated?"

 230.  Jesus therefore answered them, "My teaching is not mine, but his who sent me.

