CHOIR reading sheet - session 15
225 lines, about 30 minutes

Same mic, same room, same gain, same distance as every
other session. One continuous recording. Pause about one
second between lines. If you fluff a line, pause and say
the whole line again - do not stop recording.

Text: World English Bible (public domain).
==============================================================

   1.  "Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly are ravening wolves.

   2.  By their fruits you will know them. Do you gather grapes from thorns, or figs from thistles?

   3.  Even so, every good tree produces good fruit; but the corrupt tree produces evil fruit.

   4.  A good tree can't produce evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree produce good fruit.

   5.  Every tree that doesn't grow good fruit is cut down, and thrown into the fire.

   6.  Therefore, by their fruits you will know them.

   7.  Then I will tell them, 'I never knew you. Depart from me, you who work iniquity.'

   8.  Everyone who hears these words of mine, and doesn't do them will be like a foolish man, who built his house on the sand.

   9.  The rain came down, the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat on that house; and it fell—and great was its fall."

  10.  It happened, when Jesus had finished saying these things, that the multitudes were astonished at his teaching,

  11.  When he came down from the mountain, great multitudes followed him.

  12.  Behold, a leper came to him and worshiped him, saying, "Lord, if you want to, you can make me clean."

  13.  Jesus stretched out his hand, and touched him, saying, "I want to. Be made clean." Immediately his leprosy was cleansed.

  14.  When he came into Capernaum, a centurion came to him, asking him,

  15.  Jesus said to him, "I will come and heal him."

  16.  The centurion answered, "Lord, I'm not worthy for you to come under my roof. Just say the word, and my servant will be healed.

  17.  Jesus said to the centurion, "Go your way. Let it be done for you as you have believed." His servant was healed in that hour.

  18.  When Jesus came into Peter's house, he saw his wife's mother lying sick with a fever.

  19.  He touched her hand, and the fever left her. She got up and served him.

  20.  When evening came, they brought to him many possessed with demons. He cast out the spirits with a word, and healed all who were sick;

  21.  Now when Jesus saw great multitudes around him, he gave the order to depart to the other side.

  22.  A scribe came, and said to him, "Teacher, I will follow you wherever you go."

  23.  Another of his disciples said to him, "Lord, allow me first to go and bury my father."

  24.  But Jesus said to him, "Follow me, and leave the dead to bury their own dead."

  25.  When he got into a boat, his disciples followed him.

  26.  Behold, a violent storm came up on the sea, so much that the boat was covered with the waves, but he was asleep.

  27.  They came to him, and woke him up, saying, "Save us, Lord! We are dying!"

  28.  The men marveled, saying, "What kind of man is this, that even the wind and the sea obey him?"

  29.  Now there was a herd of many pigs feeding far away from them.

  30.  The demons begged him, saying, "If you cast us out, permit us to go away into the herd of pigs."

  31.  Those who fed them fled, and went away into the city, and told everything, including what happened to those who were possessed with demons.

  32.  Behold, all the city came out to meet Jesus. When they saw him, they begged that he would depart from their borders.

  33.  He entered into a boat, and crossed over, and came into his own city.

  34.  Behold, some of the scribes said to themselves, "This man blasphemes."

  35.  Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said, "Why do you think evil in your hearts?

  36.  For which is easier, to say, 'Your sins are forgiven;' or to say, 'Get up, and walk?'

  37.  He arose and departed to his house.

  38.  But when the multitudes saw it, they marveled and glorified God, who had given such authority to men.

  39.  It happened as he sat in the house, behold, many tax collectors and sinners came and sat down with Jesus and his disciples.

  40.  When the Pharisees saw it, they said to his disciples, "Why does your teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners?"

  41.  When Jesus heard it, he said to them, "Those who are healthy have no need for a physician, but those who are sick do.

  42.  Then John's disciples came to him, saying, "Why do we and the Pharisees fast often, but your disciples don't fast?"

  43.  Jesus got up and followed him, as did his disciples.

  44.  Behold, a woman who had an issue of blood for twelve years came behind him, and touched the fringe of his garment;

  45.  When Jesus came into the ruler's house, and saw the flute players, and the crowd in noisy disorder,

  46.  But when the crowd was put out, he entered in, took her by the hand, and the girl arose.

  47.  The report of this went out into all that land.

  48.  As Jesus passed by from there, two blind men followed him, calling out and saying, "Have mercy on us, son of David!"

  49.  Then he touched their eyes, saying, "According to your faith be it done to you."

  50.  Their eyes were opened. Jesus strictly commanded them, saying, "See that no one knows about this."

  51.  But they went out and spread abroad his fame in all that land.

  52.  As they went out, behold, a mute man who was demon possessed was brought to him.

  53.  When the demon was cast out, the mute man spoke. The multitudes marveled, saying, "Nothing like this has ever been seen in Israel!"

  54.  But the Pharisees said, "By the prince of the demons, he casts out demons."

  55.  But when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion for them, because they were harassed and scattered, like sheep without a shepherd.

  56.  Then he said to his disciples, "The harvest indeed is plentiful, but the laborers are few.

  57.  Pray therefore that the Lord of the harvest will send out laborers into his harvest."

  58.  Simon the Canaanite; and Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed him.

  59.  Jesus sent these twelve out, and commanded them, saying, "Don't go among the Gentiles, and don't enter into any city of the Samaritans.

  60.  Rather, go to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.

  61.  As you go, preach, saying, 'The Kingdom of Heaven is at hand!'

  62.  Heal the sick, cleanse the lepers, and cast out demons. Freely you received, so freely give.

  63.  Don't take any gold, nor silver, nor brass in your money belts.

  64.  Take no bag for your journey, neither two coats, nor shoes, nor staff: for the laborer is worthy of his food.

  65.  Into whatever city or village you enter, find out who in it is worthy; and stay there until you go on.

  66.  As you enter into the household, greet it.

  67.  If the household is worthy, let your peace come on it, but if it isn't worthy, let your peace return to you.

  68.  Whoever doesn't receive you, nor hear your words, as you go out of that house or that city, shake off the dust from your feet.

  69.  "Behold, I send you out as sheep in the midst of wolves. Therefore be wise as serpents, and harmless as doves.

  70.  But beware of men: for they will deliver you up to councils, and in their synagogues they will scourge you.

  71.  Yes, and you will be brought before governors and kings for my sake, for a testimony to them and to the nations.

  72.  For it is not you who speak, but the Spirit of your Father who speaks in you.

  73.  You will be hated by all men for my name's sake, but he who endures to the end will be saved.

  74.  "A disciple is not above his teacher, nor a servant above his lord.

  75.  Therefore don't be afraid of them, for there is nothing covered that will not be revealed; and hidden that will not be known.

  76.  What I tell you in the darkness, speak in the light; and what you hear whispered in the ear, proclaim on the housetops.

  77.  "Aren't two sparrows sold for an assarion coin? Not one of them falls on the ground apart from your Father's will,

  78.  Therefore don't be afraid. You are of more value than many sparrows.

  79.  Everyone therefore who confesses me before men, him I will also confess before my Father who is in heaven.

  80.  But whoever denies me before men, him I will also deny before my Father who is in heaven.

  81.  "Don't think that I came to send peace on the earth. I didn't come to send peace, but a sword.

  82.  For I came to set a man at odds against his father, and a daughter against her mother, and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law.

  83.  A man's foes will be those of his own household.

  84.  He who doesn't take his cross and follow after me, isn't worthy of me.

  85.  He who seeks his life will lose it; and he who loses his life for my sake will find it.

  86.  He who receives you receives me, and he who receives me receives him who sent me.

  87.  It happened that when Jesus had finished directing his twelve disciples, he departed from there to teach and preach in their cities.

  88.  Now when John heard in the prison the works of Christ, he sent two of his disciples

  89.  Jesus answered them, "Go and tell John the things which you hear and see:

  90.  But what did you go out to see? A man in soft clothing? Behold, those who wear soft clothing are in king's houses.

  91.  But why did you go out? To see a prophet? Yes, I tell you, and much more than a prophet.

  92.  For this is he, of whom it is written, 'Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way before you.'

  93.  From the days of John the Baptizer until now, the Kingdom of Heaven suffers violence, and the violent take it by force.

  94.  For all the prophets and the law prophesied until John.

  95.  If you are willing to receive it, this is Elijah, who is to come.

  96.  He who has ears to hear, let him hear.

  97.  "But to what shall I compare this generation? It is like children sitting in the marketplaces, who call to their companions

  98.  For John came neither eating nor drinking, and they say, 'He has a demon.'

  99.  Then he began to denounce the cities in which most of his mighty works had been done, because they didn't repent.

 100.  But I tell you, it will be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon on the day of judgment than for you.

 101.  But I tell you that it will be more tolerable for the land of Sodom, on the day of judgment, than for you."

 102.  Yes, Father, for so it was well-pleasing in your sight.

 103.  "Come to me, all you who labor and are heavily burdened, and I will give you rest.

 104.  Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart; and you will find rest for your souls.

 105.  For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light."

 106.  But the Pharisees, when they saw it, said to him, "Behold, your disciples do what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath."

 107.  But he said to them, "Haven't you read what David did, when he was hungry, and those who were with him;

 108.  Or have you not read in the law, that on the Sabbath day, the priests in the temple profane the Sabbath, and are guiltless?

 109.  But I tell you that one greater than the temple is here.

 110.  But if you had known what this means, 'I desire mercy, and not sacrifice,' you would not have condemned the guiltless.

 111.  For the Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath."

 112.  He departed there, and went into their synagogue.

 113.  Of how much more value then is a man than a sheep! Therefore it is lawful to do good on the Sabbath day."

 114.  Then he told the man, "Stretch out your hand." He stretched it out; and it was restored whole, just like the other.

 115.  But the Pharisees went out, and conspired against him, how they might destroy him.

 116.  Jesus, perceiving that, withdrew from there. Great multitudes followed him; and he healed them all,

 117.  He will not strive, nor shout; neither will anyone hear his voice in the streets.

 118.  He won't break a bruised reed. He won't quench a smoking flax, until he leads justice to victory.

 119.  In his name, the nations will hope."

 120.  All the multitudes were amazed, and said, "Can this be the son of David?"

 121.  But when the Pharisees heard it, they said, "This man does not cast out demons, except by Beelzebul, the prince of the demons."

 122.  If Satan casts out Satan, he is divided against himself. How then will his kingdom stand?

 123.  If I by Beelzebul cast out demons, by whom do your children cast them out? Therefore they will be your judges.

 124.  But if I by the Spirit of God cast out demons, then the Kingdom of God has come upon you.

 125.  "He who is not with me is against me, and he who doesn't gather with me, scatters.

 126.  Therefore I tell you, every sin and blasphemy will be forgiven men, but the blasphemy against the Spirit will not be forgiven men.

 127.  You offspring of vipers, how can you, being evil, speak good things? For out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaks.

 128.  The good man out of his good treasure brings out good things, and the evil man out of his evil treasure brings out evil things.

 129.  I tell you that every idle word that men speak, they will give account of it in the day of judgment.

 130.  For by your words you will be justified, and by your words you will be condemned."

 131.  Then certain of the scribes and Pharisees answered, "Teacher, we want to see a sign from you."

 132.  But the unclean spirit, when he is gone out of the man, passes through waterless places, seeking rest, and doesn't find it.

 133.  While he was yet speaking to the multitudes, behold, his mother and his brothers stood outside, seeking to speak to him.

 134.  One said to him, "Behold, your mother and your brothers stand outside, seeking to speak to you."

 135.  But he answered him who spoke to him, "Who is my mother? Who are my brothers?"

 136.  He stretched out his hand towards his disciples, and said, "Behold, my mother and my brothers!

 137.  For whoever does the will of my Father who is in heaven, he is my brother, and sister, and mother."

 138.  On that day Jesus went out of the house, and sat by the seaside.

 139.  Great multitudes gathered to him, so that he entered into a boat, and sat, and all the multitude stood on the beach.

 140.  He spoke to them many things in parables, saying, "Behold, a farmer went out to sow.

 141.  As he sowed, some seeds fell by the roadside, and the birds came and devoured them.

 142.  Others fell on rocky ground, where they didn't have much soil, and immediately they sprang up, because they had no depth of earth.

 143.  When the sun had risen, they were scorched. Because they had no root, they withered away.

 144.  Others fell among thorns. The thorns grew up and choked them.

 145.  Others fell on good soil, and yielded fruit: some one hundred times as much, some sixty, and some thirty.

 146.  He who has ears to hear, let him hear."

 147.  The disciples came, and said to him, "Why do you speak to them in parables?"

 148.  He answered them, "To you it is given to know the mysteries of the Kingdom of Heaven, but it is not given to them.

 149.  Therefore I speak to them in parables, because seeing they don't see, and hearing, they don't hear, neither do they understand.

 150.  "But blessed are your eyes, for they see; and your ears, for they hear.

 151.  "Hear, then, the parable of the farmer.

 152.  What was sown on the rocky places, this is he who hears the word, and immediately with joy receives it;

 153.  He set another parable before them, saying, "The Kingdom of Heaven is like a man who sowed good seed in his field,

 154.  But when the blade sprang up and brought forth fruit, then the darnel weeds appeared also.

 155.  The servants of the householder came and said to him, 'Sir, didn't you sow good seed in your field? Where did this darnel come from?'

 156.  "He said to them, 'An enemy has done this.' "The servants asked him, 'Do you want us to go and gather them up?'

 157.  "But he said, 'No, lest perhaps while you gather up the darnel weeds, you root up the wheat with them.

 158.  Jesus spoke all these things in parables to the multitudes; and without a parable, he didn't speak to them,

 159.  He answered them, "He who sows the good seed is the Son of Man,

 160.  The enemy who sowed them is the devil. The harvest is the end of the age, and the reapers are angels.

 161.  As therefore the darnel weeds are gathered up and burned with fire; so will it be at the end of this age.

 162.  Then the righteous will shine forth like the sun in the Kingdom of their Father. He who has ears to hear, let him hear.

 163.  "Again, the Kingdom of Heaven is like a man who is a merchant seeking fine pearls,

 164.  "Again, the Kingdom of Heaven is like a dragnet, that was cast into the sea, and gathered some fish of every kind,

 165.  So will it be in the end of the world. The angels will come forth, and separate the wicked from among the righteous,

 166.  Jesus said to them, "Have you understood all these things?" They answered him, "Yes, Lord."

 167.  It happened that when Jesus had finished these parables, he departed from there.

 168.  Isn't this the carpenter's son? Isn't his mother called Mary, and his brothers, James, Joses, Simon, and Judas?

 169.  Aren't all of his sisters with us? Where then did this man get all of these things?"

 170.  He didn't do many mighty works there because of their unbelief.

 171.  At that time, Herod the tetrarch heard the report concerning Jesus,

 172.  For Herod had laid hold of John, and bound him, and put him in prison for the sake of Herodias, his brother Philip's wife.

 173.  For John said to him, "It is not lawful for you to have her."

 174.  When he would have put him to death, he feared the multitude, because they counted him as a prophet.

 175.  But when Herod's birthday came, the daughter of Herodias danced among them and pleased Herod.

 176.  Whereupon he promised with an oath to give her whatever she should ask.

 177.  She, being prompted by her mother, said, "Give me here on a platter the head of John the Baptizer."

 178.  His head was brought on a platter, and given to the young lady: and she brought it to her mother.

 179.  His disciples came, and took the body, and buried it; and they went and told Jesus.

 180.  Jesus went out, and he saw a great multitude. He had compassion on them, and healed their sick.

 181.  But Jesus said to them, "They don't need to go away. You give them something to eat."

 182.  They told him, "We only have here five loaves and two fish."

 183.  He said, "Bring them here to me."

 184.  They all ate, and were filled. They took up twelve baskets full of that which remained left over from the broken pieces.

 185.  Those who ate were about five thousand men, besides women and children.

 186.  Immediately Jesus made the disciples get into the boat, and to go ahead of him to the other side, while he sent the multitudes away.

 187.  After he had sent the multitudes away, he went up into the mountain by himself to pray. When evening had come, he was there alone.

 188.  But the boat was now in the middle of the sea, distressed by the waves, for the wind was contrary.

 189.  In the fourth watch of the night, Jesus came to them, walking on the sea.

 190.  When the disciples saw him walking on the sea, they were troubled, saying, "It's a ghost!" and they cried out for fear.

 191.  But immediately Jesus spoke to them, saying "Cheer up! It is I! Don't be afraid."

 192.  Peter answered him and said, "Lord, if it is you, command me to come to you on the waters."

 193.  He said, "Come!" Peter stepped down from the boat, and walked on the waters to come to Jesus.

 194.  But when he saw that the wind was strong, he was afraid, and beginning to sink, he cried out, saying, "Lord, save me!"

 195.  Immediately Jesus stretched out his hand, took hold of him, and said to him, "You of little faith, why did you doubt?"

 196.  When they got up into the boat, the wind ceased.

 197.  Those who were in the boat came and worshiped him, saying, "You are truly the Son of God!"

 198.  When they had crossed over, they came to the land of Gennesaret.

 199.  When the people of that place recognized him, they sent into all that surrounding region, and brought to him all who were sick,

 200.  Then Pharisees and scribes came to Jesus from Jerusalem, saying,

 201.  "Why do your disciples disobey the tradition of the elders? For they don't wash their hands when they eat bread."

 202.  He answered them, "Why do you also disobey the commandment of God because of your tradition?

 203.  For God commanded, 'Honor your father and your mother,' and, 'He who speaks evil of father or mother, let him be put to death.'

 204.  You hypocrites! Well did Isaiah prophesy of you, saying,

 205.  'These people draw near to me with their mouth, and honor me with their lips; but their heart is far from me.

 206.  And in vain do they worship me, teaching as doctrine rules made by men.'"

 207.  He summoned the multitude, and said to them, "Hear, and understand.

 208.  That which enters into the mouth doesn't defile the man; but that which proceeds out of the mouth, this defiles the man."

 209.  Then the disciples came, and said to him, "Do you know that the Pharisees were offended, when they heard this saying?"

 210.  But he answered, "Every plant which my heavenly Father didn't plant will be uprooted.

 211.  Leave them alone. They are blind guides of the blind. If the blind guide the blind, both will fall into a pit."

 212.  Peter answered him, "Explain the parable to us."

 213.  So Jesus said, "Do you also still not understand?

 214.  Don't you understand that whatever goes into the mouth passes into the belly, and then out of the body?

 215.  But the things which proceed out of the mouth come out of the heart, and they defile the man.

 216.  For out of the heart come forth evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, sexual sins, thefts, false testimony, and blasphemies.

 217.  These are the things which defile the man; but to eat with unwashed hands doesn't defile the man."

 218.  Jesus went out from there, and withdrew into the region of Tyre and Sidon.

 219.  But he answered her not a word. His disciples came and begged him, saying, "Send her away; for she cries after us."

 220.  But he answered, "I wasn't sent to anyone but the lost sheep of the house of Israel."

 221.  But she came and worshiped him, saying, "Lord, help me."

 222.  But he answered, "It is not appropriate to take the children's bread and throw it to the dogs."

 223.  But she said, "Yes, Lord, but even the dogs eat the crumbs which fall from their masters' table."

 224.  Jesus departed there, and came near to the sea of Galilee; and he went up into the mountain, and sat there.

 225.  The disciples said to him, "Where should we get so many loaves in a deserted place as to satisfy so great a multitude?"

