CHOIR reading sheet - session 13
243 lines, about 30 minutes

Same mic, same room, same gain, same distance as every
other session. One continuous recording. Pause about one
second between lines. If you fluff a line, pause and say
the whole line again - do not stop recording.

Text: World English Bible (public domain).
==============================================================

   1.  An evil man seeks only rebellion; therefore a cruel messenger shall be sent against him.

   2.  Let a bear robbed of her cubs meet a man, rather than a fool in his folly.

   3.  Whoever rewards evil for good, evil shall not depart from his house.

   4.  The beginning of strife is like breaching a dam, therefore stop contention before quarreling breaks out.

   5.  Why is there money in the hand of a fool to buy wisdom, since he has no understanding?

   6.  A friend loves at all times; and a brother is born for adversity.

   7.  A man void of understanding strikes hands, and becomes collateral in the presence of his neighbor.

   8.  He who loves disobedience loves strife. One who builds a high gate seeks destruction.

   9.  One who has a perverse heart doesn't find prosperity, and one who has a deceitful tongue falls into trouble.

  10.  He who becomes the father of a fool grieves. The father of a fool has no joy.

  11.  A cheerful heart makes good medicine, but a crushed spirit dries up the bones.

  12.  A wicked man receives a bribe in secret, to pervert the ways of justice.

  13.  Wisdom is before the face of one who has understanding, but the eyes of a fool wander to the ends of the earth.

  14.  A foolish son brings grief to his father, and bitterness to her who bore him.

  15.  Also to punish the righteous is not good, nor to flog officials for their integrity.

  16.  He who spares his words has knowledge. He who is even tempered is a man of understanding.

  17.  Even a fool, when he keeps silent, is counted wise. When he shuts his lips, he is thought to be discerning.

  18.  An unfriendly man pursues selfishness, and defies all sound judgment.

  19.  A fool has no delight in understanding, but only in revealing his own opinion.

  20.  When wickedness comes, contempt also comes, and with shame comes disgrace.

  21.  The words of a man's mouth are like deep waters. The fountain of wisdom is like a flowing brook.

  22.  To be partial to the faces of the wicked is not good, nor to deprive the innocent of justice.

  23.  A fool's lips come into strife, and his mouth invites beatings.

  24.  A fool's mouth is his destruction, and his lips are a snare to his soul.

  25.  The words of a gossip are like dainty morsels: they go down into a person's innermost parts.

  26.  One who is slack in his work is brother to him who is a master of destruction.

  27.  The rich man's wealth is his strong city, like an unscalable wall in his own imagination.

  28.  Before destruction the heart of man is proud, but before honor is humility.

  29.  He who gives answer before he hears, that is folly and shame to him.

  30.  A man's spirit will sustain him in sickness, but a crushed spirit, who can bear?

  31.  The heart of the discerning gets knowledge. The ear of the wise seeks knowledge.

  32.  A man's gift makes room for him, and brings him before great men.

  33.  He who pleads his cause first seems right; until another comes and questions him.

  34.  The lot settles disputes, and keeps strong ones apart.

  35.  A brother offended is more difficult than a fortified city; and disputes are like the bars of a castle.

  36.  A man's stomach is filled with the fruit of his mouth. With the harvest of his lips he is satisfied.

  37.  Death and life are in the power of the tongue; those who love it will eat its fruit.

  38.  The poor plead for mercy, but the rich answer harshly.

  39.  A man of many companions may be ruined, but there is a friend who sticks closer than a brother.

  40.  Better is the poor who walks in his integrity than he who is perverse in his lips and is a fool.

  41.  It isn't good to have zeal without knowledge; nor being hasty with one's feet and missing the way.

  42.  Wealth adds many friends, but the poor is separated from his friend.

  43.  A false witness shall not be unpunished. He who pours out lies shall not go free.

  44.  Many will entreat the favor of a ruler, and everyone is a friend to a man who gives gifts.

  45.  All the relatives of the poor shun him: how much more do his friends avoid him! He pursues them with pleas, but they are gone.

  46.  He who gets wisdom loves his own soul. He who keeps understanding shall find good.

  47.  A false witness shall not be unpunished. He who utters lies shall perish.

  48.  Delicate living is not appropriate for a fool, much less for a servant to have rule over princes.

  49.  The discretion of a man makes him slow to anger. It is his glory to overlook an offense.

  50.  The king's wrath is like the roaring of a lion, but his favor is like dew on the grass.

  51.  A foolish son is the calamity of his father. A wife's quarrels are a continual dripping.

  52.  Slothfulness casts into a deep sleep. The idle soul shall suffer hunger.

  53.  He who keeps the commandment keeps his soul, but he who is contemptuous in his ways shall die.

  54.  Discipline your son, for there is hope; don't be a willing party to his death.

  55.  A hot-tempered man must pay the penalty, for if you rescue him, you must do it again.

  56.  Listen to counsel and receive instruction, that you may be wise in your latter end.

  57.  That which makes a man to be desired is his kindness. A poor man is better than a liar.

  58.  The sluggard buries his hand in the dish; he will not so much as bring it to his mouth again.

  59.  Flog a scoffer, and the simple will learn prudence; rebuke one who has understanding, and he will gain knowledge.

  60.  He who robs his father and drives away his mother, is a son who causes shame and brings reproach.

  61.  If you stop listening to instruction, my son, you will stray from the words of knowledge.

  62.  A corrupt witness mocks justice, and the mouth of the wicked gulps down iniquity.

  63.  Penalties are prepared for scoffers, and beatings for the backs of fools.

  64.  Wine is a mocker, and beer is a brawler. Whoever is led astray by them is not wise.

  65.  The terror of a king is like the roaring of a lion. He who provokes him to anger forfeits his own life.

  66.  It is an honor for a man to keep aloof from strife; but every fool will be quarreling.

  67.  The sluggard will not plow by reason of the winter; therefore he shall beg in harvest, and have nothing.

  68.  Counsel in the heart of man is like deep water; but a man of understanding will draw it out.

  69.  Many men claim to be men of unfailing love, but who can find a faithful man?

  70.  A righteous man walks in integrity. Blessed are his children after him.

  71.  A king who sits on the throne of judgment scatters away all evil with his eyes.

  72.  Who can say, "I have made my heart pure. I am clean and without sin?"

  73.  Even a child makes himself known by his doings, whether his work is pure, and whether it is right.

  74.  Don't love sleep, lest you come to poverty. Open your eyes, and you shall be satisfied with bread.

  75.  "It's no good, it's no good," says the buyer; but when he is gone his way, then he boasts.

  76.  There is gold and abundance of rubies; but the lips of knowledge are a rare jewel.

  77.  Take the garment of one who puts up collateral for a stranger; and hold him in pledge for a wayward woman.

  78.  Fraudulent food is sweet to a man, but afterwards his mouth is filled with gravel.

  79.  Plans are established by advice; by wise guidance you wage war!

  80.  He who goes about as a tale-bearer reveals secrets; therefore don't keep company with him who opens wide his lips.

  81.  Whoever curses his father or his mother, his lamp shall be put out in blackness of darkness.

  82.  An inheritance quickly gained at the beginning, won't be blessed in the end.

  83.  It is a snare to a man to make a rash dedication, then later to consider his vows.

  84.  A wise king winnows out the wicked, and drives the threshing wheel over them.

  85.  Love and faithfulness keep the king safe. His throne is sustained by love.

  86.  The glory of young men is their strength. The splendor of old men is their gray hair.

  87.  Wounding blows cleanse away evil, and beatings purge the innermost parts.

  88.  A high look, and a proud heart, the lamp of the wicked, is sin.

  89.  The plans of the diligent surely lead to profit; and everyone who is hasty surely rushes to poverty.

  90.  Getting treasures by a lying tongue is a fleeting vapor for those who seek death.

  91.  The violence of the wicked will drive them away, because they refuse to do what is right.

  92.  The way of the guilty is devious, but the conduct of the innocent is upright.

  93.  It is better to dwell in the corner of the housetop, than to share a house with a contentious woman.

  94.  The soul of the wicked desires evil; his neighbor finds no mercy in his eyes.

  95.  When the mocker is punished, the simple gains wisdom. When the wise is instructed, he receives knowledge.

  96.  The Righteous One considers the house of the wicked, and brings the wicked to ruin.

  97.  Whoever stops his ears at the cry of the poor, he will also cry out, but shall not be heard.

  98.  A gift in secret pacifies anger; and a bribe in the cloak, strong wrath.

  99.  It is joy to the righteous to do justice; but it is a destruction to the workers of iniquity.

 100.  The man who wanders out of the way of understanding shall rest in the assembly of the dead.

 101.  He who loves pleasure shall be a poor man. He who loves wine and oil shall not be rich.

 102.  The wicked is a ransom for the righteous; the treacherous for the upright.

 103.  It is better to dwell in a desert land, than with a contentious and fretful woman.

 104.  There is precious treasure and oil in the dwelling of the wise; but a foolish man swallows it up.

 105.  He who follows after righteousness and kindness finds life, righteousness, and honor.

 106.  A wise man scales the city of the mighty, and brings down the strength of its confidence.

 107.  Whoever guards his mouth and his tongue keeps his soul from troubles.

 108.  The proud and haughty man, "scoffer" is his name; he works in the arrogance of pride.

 109.  The desire of the sluggard kills him, for his hands refuse to labor.

 110.  There are those who covet greedily all day long; but the righteous give and don't withhold.

 111.  The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination: how much more, when he brings it with a wicked mind!

 112.  A false witness will perish, and a man who listens speaks to eternity.

 113.  A wicked man hardens his face; but as for the upright, he establishes his ways.

 114.  A good name is more desirable than great riches, and loving favor is better than silver and gold.

 115.  A prudent man sees danger, and hides himself; but the simple pass on, and suffer for it.

 116.  Thorns and snares are in the path of the wicked: whoever guards his soul stays from them.

 117.  Train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old he will not depart from it.

 118.  The rich rule over the poor. The borrower is servant to the lender.

 119.  He who sows wickedness reaps trouble, and the rod of his fury will be destroyed.

 120.  He who has a generous eye will be blessed; for he shares his food with the poor.

 121.  Drive out the mocker, and strife will go out; yes, quarrels and insults will stop.

 122.  He who loves purity of heart and speaks gracefully is the king's friend.

 123.  The sluggard says, "There is a lion outside! I will be killed in the streets!"

 124.  Folly is bound up in the heart of a child: the rod of discipline drives it far from him.

 125.  Whoever oppresses the poor for his own increase and whoever gives to the rich, both come to poverty.

 126.  Turn your ear, and listen to the words of the wise. Apply your heart to my teaching.

 127.  For it is a pleasant thing if you keep them within you, if all of them are ready on your lips.

 128.  Haven't I written to you thirty excellent things of counsel and knowledge,

 129.  To teach you truth, reliable words, to give sound answers to the ones who sent you?

 130.  Don't exploit the poor, because he is poor; and don't crush the needy in court;

 131.  Don't befriend a hot-tempered man, and don't associate with one who harbors anger:

 132.  Don't you be one of those who strike hands, of those who are collateral for debts.

 133.  If you don't have means to pay, why should he take away your bed from under you?

 134.  Don't move the ancient boundary stone, which your fathers have set up.

 135.  Do you see a man skilled in his work? He will serve kings. He won't serve obscure men.

 136.  When you sit to eat with a ruler, consider diligently what is before you;

 137.  Don't be desirous of his dainties, since they are deceitful food.

 138.  Don't weary yourself to be rich. In your wisdom, show restraint.

 139.  Why do you set your eyes on that which is not? For it certainly sprouts wings like an eagle and flies in the sky.

 140.  Don't eat the food of him who has a stingy eye, and don't crave his delicacies:

 141.  The morsel which you have eaten you shall vomit up, and lose your good words.

 142.  Don't speak in the ears of a fool, for he will despise the wisdom of your words.

 143.  Don't move the ancient boundary stone. Don't encroach on the fields of the fatherless:

 144.  Apply your heart to instruction, and your ears to the words of knowledge.

 145.  Don't withhold correction from a child. If you punish him with the rod, he will not die.

 146.  Punish him with the rod, and save his soul from Sheol.

 147.  My son, if your heart is wise, then my heart will be glad, even mine:

 148.  Indeed surely there is a future hope, and your hope will not be cut off.

 149.  Listen, my son, and be wise, and keep your heart on the right path!

 150.  Don't be among ones drinking too much wine, or those who gorge themselves on meat:

 151.  Listen to your father who gave you life, and don't despise your mother when she is old.

 152.  Buy the truth, and don't sell it. Get wisdom, discipline, and understanding.

 153.  The father of the righteous has great joy. Whoever fathers a wise child delights in him.

 154.  Let your father and your mother be glad! Let her who bore you rejoice!

 155.  My son, give me your heart; and let your eyes keep in my ways.

 156.  For a prostitute is a deep pit; and a wayward wife is a narrow well.

 157.  Yes, she lies in wait like a robber, and increases the unfaithful among men.

 158.  Who has woe? Who has sorrow? Who has strife? Who has complaints? Who has needless bruises? Who has bloodshot eyes?

 159.  Those who stay long at the wine; those who go to seek out mixed wine.

 160.  Don't look at the wine when it is red, when it sparkles in the cup, when it goes down smoothly.

 161.  In the end, it bites like a snake, and poisons like a viper.

 162.  Your eyes will see strange things, and your mind will imagine confusing things.

 163.  Yes, you will be as he who lies down in the midst of the sea, or as he who lies on top of the rigging:

 164.  Don't be envious of evil men; neither desire to be with them:

 165.  Through wisdom a house is built; by understanding it is established;

 166.  A wise man has great power; and a knowledgeable man increases strength;

 167.  Wisdom is too high for a fool: he doesn't open his mouth in the gate.

 168.  One who plots to do evil will be called a schemer.

 169.  The schemes of folly are sin. The mocker is detested by men.

 170.  If you falter in the time of trouble, your strength is small.

 171.  Rescue those who are being led away to death! Indeed, hold back those who are staggering to the slaughter!

 172.  My son, eat honey, for it is good; the droppings of the honeycomb, which are sweet to your taste:

 173.  Don't lay in wait, wicked man, against the habitation of the righteous. Don't destroy his resting place:

 174.  Don't rejoice when your enemy falls. Don't let your heart be glad when he is overthrown;

 175.  Don't fret yourself because of evildoers; neither be envious of the wicked:

 176.  These also are sayings of the wise. To show partiality in judgment is not good.

 177.  He who says to the wicked, "You are righteous;" peoples shall curse him, and nations shall abhor him—

 178.  An honest answer is like a kiss on the lips.

 179.  Prepare your work outside, and get your fields ready. Afterwards, build your house.

 180.  Don't be a witness against your neighbor without cause. Don't deceive with your lips.

 181.  Don't say, "I will do to him as he has done to me; I will render to the man according to his work."

 182.  I went by the field of the sluggard, by the vineyard of the man void of understanding;

 183.  Behold, it was all grown over with thorns. Its surface was covered with nettles, and its stone wall was broken down.

 184.  Then I saw, and considered well. I saw, and received instruction:

 185.  These also are proverbs of Solomon, which the men of Hezekiah king of Judah copied out.

 186.  It is the glory of God to conceal a thing, but the glory of kings is to search out a matter.

 187.  As the heavens for height, and the earth for depth, so the hearts of kings are unsearchable.

 188.  Take away the dross from the silver, and material comes out for the refiner;

 189.  Take away the wicked from the king's presence, and his throne will be established in righteousness.

 190.  Don't exalt yourself in the presence of the king, or claim a place among great men;

 191.  Don't be hasty in bringing charges to court. What will you do in the end when your neighbor shames you?

 192.  Debate your case with your neighbor, and don't betray the confidence of another;

 193.  A word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in settings of silver.

 194.  As an earring of gold, and an ornament of fine gold, so is a wise reprover to an obedient ear.

 195.  As clouds and wind without rain, so is he who boasts of gifts deceptively.

 196.  By patience a ruler is persuaded. A soft tongue breaks the bone.

 197.  Have you found honey? Eat as much as is sufficient for you, lest you eat too much, and vomit it.

 198.  Let your foot be seldom in your neighbor's house, lest he be weary of you, and hate you.

 199.  A man who gives false testimony against his neighbor is like a club, a sword, or a sharp arrow.

 200.  Confidence in someone unfaithful in time of trouble is like a bad tooth, or a lame foot.

 201.  As one who takes away a garment in cold weather, or vinegar on soda, so is one who sings songs to a heavy heart.

 202.  If your enemy is hungry, give him food to eat. If he is thirsty, give him water to drink:

 203.  The north wind brings forth rain: so a backbiting tongue brings an angry face.

 204.  Like cold water to a thirsty soul, so is good news from a far country.

 205.  Like a muddied spring, and a polluted well, so is a righteous man who gives way before the wicked.

 206.  It is not good to eat much honey; nor is it honorable to seek one's own honor.

 207.  Like a city that is broken down and without walls is a man whose spirit is without restraint.

 208.  Like snow in summer, and as rain in harvest, so honor is not fitting for a fool.

 209.  Like a fluttering sparrow, like a darting swallow, so the undeserved curse doesn't come to rest.

 210.  A whip is for the horse, a bridle for the donkey, and a rod for the back of fools!

 211.  Don't answer a fool according to his folly, lest you also be like him.

 212.  Answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own eyes.

 213.  One who sends a message by the hand of a fool is cutting off feet and drinking violence.

 214.  Like the legs of the lame that hang loose: so is a parable in the mouth of fools.

 215.  As one who binds a stone in a sling, so is he who gives honor to a fool.

 216.  Like a thornbush that goes into the hand of a drunkard, so is a parable in the mouth of fools.

 217.  As an archer who wounds all, so is he who hires a fool or he who hires those who pass by.

 218.  As a dog that returns to his vomit, so is a fool who repeats his folly.

 219.  Do you see a man wise in his own eyes? There is more hope for a fool than for him.

 220.  The sluggard says, "There is a lion in the road! A fierce lion roams the streets!"

 221.  As the door turns on its hinges, so does the sluggard on his bed.

 222.  The sluggard buries his hand in the dish. He is too lazy to bring it back to his mouth.

 223.  The sluggard is wiser in his own eyes than seven men who answer with discretion.

 224.  Like one who grabs a dog's ears is one who passes by and meddles in a quarrel not his own.

 225.  Like a madman who shoots torches, arrows, and death,

 226.  For lack of wood a fire goes out. Without gossip, a quarrel dies down.

 227.  As coals are to hot embers, and wood to fire, so is a contentious man to kindling strife.

 228.  The words of a whisperer are as dainty morsels, they go down into the innermost parts.

 229.  Like silver dross on an earthen vessel are the lips of a fervent one with an evil heart.

 230.  A malicious man disguises himself with his lips, but he harbors evil in his heart.

 231.  When his speech is charming, don't believe him; for there are seven abominations in his heart.

 232.  His malice may be concealed by deception, but his wickedness will be exposed in the assembly.

 233.  Whoever digs a pit shall fall into it. Whoever rolls a stone, it will come back on him.

 234.  A lying tongue hates those it hurts; and a flattering mouth works ruin.

 235.  Don't boast about tomorrow; for you don't know what a day may bring forth.

 236.  Let another man praise you, and not your own mouth; a stranger, and not your own lips.

 237.  A stone is heavy, and sand is a burden; but a fool's provocation is heavier than both.

 238.  Wrath is cruel, and anger is overwhelming; but who is able to stand before jealousy?

 239.  Better is open rebuke than hidden love.

 240.  Faithful are the wounds of a friend; although the kisses of an enemy are profuse.

 241.  A full soul loathes a honeycomb; but to a hungry soul, every bitter thing is sweet.

 242.  As a bird that wanders from her nest, so is a man who wanders from his home.

 243.  Perfume and incense bring joy to the heart; so does earnest counsel from a man's friend.

