CHOIR reading sheet - session 11
239 lines, about 30 minutes

Same mic, same room, same gain, same distance as every
other session. One continuous recording. Pause about one
second between lines. If you fluff a line, pause and say
the whole line again - do not stop recording.

Text: World English Bible (public domain).
==============================================================

   1.  As they cried out, and threw off their cloaks, and threw dust into the air,

   2.  The commanding officer came and asked him, "Tell me, are you a Roman?" He said, "Yes."

   3.  The commanding officer answered, "I bought my citizenship for a great price." Paul said, "But I was born a Roman."

   4.  Paul, looking steadfastly at the council, said, "Brothers, I have lived before God in all good conscience until this day."

   5.  The high priest, Ananias, commanded those who stood by him to strike him on the mouth.

   6.  Those who stood by said, "Do you malign God's high priest?"

   7.  When he had said this, an argument arose between the Pharisees and Sadducees, and the assembly was divided.

   8.  For the Sadducees say that there is no resurrection, nor angel, nor spirit; but the Pharisees confess all of these.

   9.  There were more than forty people who had made this conspiracy.

  10.  But Paul's sister's son heard of their lying in wait, and he came and entered into the barracks and told Paul.

  11.  Paul summoned one of the centurions, and said, "Bring this young man to the commanding officer, for he has something to tell him."

  12.  The commanding officer took him by the hand, and going aside, asked him privately, "What is it that you have to tell me?"

  13.  So the commanding officer let the young man go, charging him, "Tell no one that you have revealed these things to me."

  14.  He asked them to provide animals, that they might set Paul on one, and bring him safely to Felix the governor.

  15.  He wrote a letter like this:

  16.  "Claudius Lysias to the most excellent governor Felix: Greetings.

  17.  Desiring to know the cause why they accused him, I brought him down to their council.

  18.  I found him to be accused about questions of their law, but not to be charged with anything worthy of death or of imprisonment.

  19.  So the soldiers, carrying out their orders, took Paul and brought him by night to Antipatris.

  20.  But on the next day they left the horsemen to go with him, and returned to the barracks.

  21.  When they came to Caesarea and delivered the letter to the governor, they also presented Paul to him.

  22.  When the governor had read it, he asked what province he was from. When he understood that he was from Cilicia, he said,

  23.  "I will hear you fully when your accusers also arrive." He commanded that he be kept in Herod's palace.

  24.  After five days, the high priest, Ananias, came down with certain elders and an orator, one Tertullus. They informed the governor against Paul.

  25.  But, that I don't delay you, I entreat you to bear with us and hear a few words.

  26.  He even tried to profane the temple, and we arrested him.

  27.  By examining him yourself you may ascertain all these things of which we accuse him."

  28.  The Jews also joined in the attack, affirming that these things were so.

  29.  In the temple they didn't find me disputing with anyone or stirring up a crowd, either in the synagogues, or in the city.

  30.  Nor can they prove to you the things of which they now accuse me.

  31.  Herein I also practice always having a conscience void of offense toward God and men.

  32.  Now after some years, I came to bring gifts for the needy to my nation, and offerings;

  33.  They ought to have been here before you, and to make accusation, if they had anything against me.

  34.  Or else let these men themselves say what injustice they found in me when I stood before the council,

  35.  But Felix, having more exact knowledge concerning the Way, deferred them, saying, "When Lysias, the commanding officer, comes down, I will decide your case."

  36.  But when two years were fulfilled, Felix was succeeded by Porcius Festus, and desiring to gain favor with the Jews, Felix left Paul in bonds.

  37.  Festus therefore, having come into the province, after three days went up to Jerusalem from Caesarea.

  38.  Then the high priest and the principal men of the Jews informed him against Paul, and they begged him,

  39.  However Festus answered that Paul should be kept in custody at Caesarea, and that he himself was about to depart shortly.

  40.  Then Festus, when he had conferred with the council, answered, "You have appealed to Caesar. To Caesar you shall go."

  41.  Now when some days had passed, King Agrippa and Bernice arrived at Caesarea, and greeted Festus.

  42.  As he stayed there many days, Festus laid Paul's case before the king, saying, "There is a certain man left a prisoner by Felix;

  43.  Concerning whom, when the accusers stood up, they brought no charge of such things as I supposed;

  44.  Being perplexed how to inquire concerning these things, I asked whether he was willing to go to Jerusalem and there be judged concerning these matters.

  45.  Agrippa said to Festus, "I also would like to hear the man myself." "Tomorrow," he said, "you shall hear him."

  46.  But when I found that he had committed nothing worthy of death, and as he himself appealed to the emperor I determined to send him.

  47.  For it seems to me unreasonable, in sending a prisoner, not to also specify the charges against him."

  48.  Agrippa said to Paul, "You may speak for yourself." Then Paul stretched out his hand, and made his defense.

  49.  "Indeed, all the Jews know my way of life from my youth up, which was from the beginning among my own nation and at Jerusalem;

  50.  Now I stand here to be judged for the hope of the promise made by God to our fathers,

  51.  Why is it judged incredible with you, if God does raise the dead?

  52.  "I myself most certainly thought that I ought to do many things contrary to the name of Jesus of Nazareth.

  53.  Punishing them often in all the synagogues, I tried to make them blaspheme. Being exceedingly enraged against them, I persecuted them even to foreign cities.

  54.  "Whereupon as I traveled to Damascus with the authority and commission from the chief priests,

  55.  "I said, 'Who are you, Lord?' "He said, 'I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting.

  56.  "Therefore, King Agrippa, I was not disobedient to the heavenly vision,

  57.  For this reason the Jews seized me in the temple, and tried to kill me.

  58.  As he thus made his defense, Festus said with a loud voice, "Paul, you are crazy! Your great learning is driving you insane!"

  59.  But he said, "I am not crazy, most excellent Festus, but boldly declare words of truth and reasonableness.

  60.  King Agrippa, do you believe the prophets? I know that you believe."

  61.  Agrippa said to Paul, "With a little persuasion are you trying to make me a Christian?"

  62.  The king rose up with the governor, and Bernice, and those who sat with them.

  63.  When they had withdrawn, they spoke one to another, saying, "This man does nothing worthy of death or of bonds."

  64.  Agrippa said to Festus, "This man might have been set free if he had not appealed to Caesar."

  65.  The next day, we touched at Sidon. Julius treated Paul kindly, and gave him permission to go to his friends and refresh himself.

  66.  Putting to sea from there, we sailed under the lee of Cyprus, because the winds were contrary.

  67.  When we had sailed across the sea which is off Cilicia and Pamphylia, we came to Myra, a city of Lycia.

  68.  There the centurion found a ship of Alexandria sailing for Italy, and he put us on board.

  69.  With difficulty sailing along it we came to a certain place called Fair Havens, near the city of Lasea.

  70.  When much time had passed and the voyage was now dangerous, because the Fast had now already gone by, Paul admonished them,

  71.  But the centurion gave more heed to the master and to the owner of the ship than to those things which were spoken by Paul.

  72.  When the south wind blew softly, supposing that they had obtained their purpose, they weighed anchor and sailed along Crete, close to shore.

  73.  But before long, a stormy wind beat down from shore, which is called Euroclydon.

  74.  When the ship was caught, and couldn't face the wind, we gave way to it, and were driven along.

  75.  Running under the lee of a small island called Clauda, we were able, with difficulty, to secure the boat.

  76.  As we labored exceedingly with the storm, the next day they began to throw things overboard.

  77.  On the third day, they threw out the ship's tackle with their own hands.

  78.  Now I exhort you to cheer up, for there will be no loss of life among you, but only of the ship.

  79.  For there stood by me this night an angel, belonging to the God whose I am and whom I serve,

  80.  Therefore, sirs, cheer up! For I believe God, that it will be just as it has been spoken to me.

  81.  But we must run aground on a certain island."

  82.  They took soundings, and found twenty fathoms. After a little while, they took soundings again, and found fifteen fathoms.

  83.  Fearing that we would run aground on rocky ground, they let go four anchors from the stern, and wished for daylight.

  84.  Paul said to the centurion and to the soldiers, "Unless these stay in the ship, you can't be saved."

  85.  Then the soldiers cut away the ropes of the boat, and let it fall off.

  86.  Therefore I beg you to take some food, for this is for your safety; for not a hair will perish from any of your heads."

  87.  Then they all cheered up, and they also took food.

  88.  In all, we were two hundred seventy-six souls on the ship.

  89.  When they had eaten enough, they lightened the ship, throwing out the wheat into the sea.

  90.  The soldiers' counsel was to kill the prisoners, so that none of them would swim out and escape.

  91.  When we had escaped, then they learned that the island was called Malta.

  92.  The natives showed us uncommon kindness; for they kindled a fire, and received us all, because of the present rain, and because of the cold.

  93.  However he shook off the creature into the fire, and wasn't harmed.

  94.  Then when this was done, the rest also who had diseases in the island came, and were cured.

  95.  They also honored us with many honors, and when we sailed, they put on board the things that we needed.

  96.  After three months, we set sail in a ship of Alexandria which had wintered in the island, whose sign was "The Twin Brothers."

  97.  Touching at Syracuse, we stayed there three days.

  98.  But when the Jews spoke against it, I was constrained to appeal to Caesar, not that I had anything about which to accuse my nation.

  99.  Some believed the things which were spoken, and some disbelieved.

 100.  "Be it known therefore to you, that the salvation of God is sent to the nations. They will also listen."

 101.  When he had said these words, the Jews departed, having a great dispute among themselves.

 102.  Paul stayed two whole years in his own rented house, and received all who were coming to him,

 103.  The proverbs of Solomon, the son of David, king of Israel:

 104.  My son, listen to your father's instruction, and don't forsake your mother's teaching:

 105.  My son, if sinners entice you, don't consent.

 106.  If they say, "Come with us, Let's lay in wait for blood; let's lurk secretly for the innocent without cause;

 107.  We'll find all valuable wealth. We'll fill our houses with spoil.

 108.  You shall cast your lot among us. We'll all have one purse."

 109.  My son, don't walk in the way with them. Keep your foot from their path,

 110.  For in vain is the net spread in the sight of any bird:

 111.  So are the ways of everyone who is greedy for gain. It takes away the life of its owners.

 112.  Wisdom calls aloud in the street. She utters her voice in the public squares.

 113.  She calls at the head of noisy places. At the entrance of the city gates, she utters her words:

 114.  "How long, you simple ones, will you love simplicity? How long will mockers delight themselves in mockery, and fools hate knowledge?

 115.  Turn at my reproof. Behold, I will pour out my spirit on you. I will make known my words to you.

 116.  Because I have called, and you have refused; I have stretched out my hand, and no one has paid attention;

 117.  I also will laugh at your disaster. I will mock when calamity overtakes you;

 118.  Then will they call on me, but I will not answer. They will seek me diligently, but they will not find me;

 119.  They wanted none of my counsel. They despised all my reproof.

 120.  Therefore they will eat of the fruit of their own way, and be filled with their own schemes.

 121.  For the backsliding of the simple will kill them. The careless ease of fools will destroy them.

 122.  But whoever listens to me will dwell securely, and will be at ease, without fear of harm."

 123.  My son, if you will receive my words, and store up my commandments within you;

 124.  So as to turn your ear to wisdom, and apply your heart to understanding;

 125.  Yes, if you call out for discernment, and lift up your voice for understanding;

 126.  If you seek her as silver, and search for her as for hidden treasures:

 127.  He lays up sound wisdom for the upright. He is a shield to those who walk in integrity;

 128.  Then you will understand righteousness and justice, equity and every good path.

 129.  For wisdom will enter into your heart. Knowledge will be pleasant to your soul.

 130.  Discretion will watch over you. Understanding will keep you,

 131.  To deliver you from the strange woman, even from the foreigner who flatters with her words;

 132.  None who go to her return again, neither do they attain to the paths of life:

 133.  For the upright will dwell in the land. The perfect will remain in it.

 134.  But the wicked will be cut off from the land. The treacherous will be rooted out of it.

 135.  My son, don't forget my teaching; but let your heart keep my commandments:

 136.  Don't let kindness and truth forsake you. Bind them around your neck. Write them on the tablet of your heart.

 137.  So you will find favor, and good understanding in the sight of God and man.

 138.  In all your ways acknowledge him, and he will make your paths straight.

 139.  It will be health to your body, and nourishment to your bones.

 140.  Happy is the man who finds wisdom, the man who gets understanding.

 141.  For her good profit is better than getting silver, and her return is better than fine gold.

 142.  She is more precious than rubies. None of the things you can desire are to be compared to her.

 143.  Length of days is in her right hand. In her left hand are riches and honor.

 144.  Her ways are ways of pleasantness. All her paths are peace.

 145.  She is a tree of life to those who lay hold of her. Happy is everyone who retains her.

 146.  By his knowledge, the depths were broken up, and the skies drop down the dew.

 147.  My son, let them not depart from your eyes. Keep sound wisdom and discretion:

 148.  Then you shall walk in your way securely. Your foot won't stumble.

 149.  When you lie down, you will not be afraid. Yes, you will lie down, and your sleep will be sweet.

 150.  Don't be afraid of sudden fear, neither of the desolation of the wicked, when it comes:

 151.  Don't withhold good from those to whom it is due, when it is in the power of your hand to do it.

 152.  Don't say to your neighbor, "Go, and come again; tomorrow I will give it to you," when you have it by you.

 153.  Don't devise evil against your neighbor, since he dwells securely by you.

 154.  Don't strive with a man without cause, if he has done you no harm.

 155.  Don't envy the man of violence. Choose none of his ways.

 156.  Surely he mocks the mockers, but he gives grace to the humble.

 157.  The wise will inherit glory, but shame will be the promotion of fools.

 158.  Listen, sons, to a father's instruction. Pay attention and know understanding;

 159.  For I was a son to my father, tender and an only child in the sight of my mother.

 160.  He taught me, and said to me: "Let your heart retain my words. Keep my commandments, and live.

 161.  Get wisdom. Get understanding. Don't forget, neither swerve from the words of my mouth.

 162.  Don't forsake her, and she will preserve you. Love her, and she will keep you.

 163.  Wisdom is supreme. Get wisdom. Yes, though it costs all your possessions, get understanding.

 164.  Esteem her, and she will exalt you. She will bring you to honor, when you embrace her.

 165.  She will give to your head a garland of grace. She will deliver a crown of splendor to you."

 166.  Listen, my son, and receive my sayings. The years of your life will be many.

 167.  I have taught you in the way of wisdom. I have led you in straight paths.

 168.  When you go, your steps will not be hampered. When you run, you will not stumble.

 169.  Take firm hold of instruction. Don't let her go. Keep her, for she is your life.

 170.  Don't enter into the path of the wicked. Don't walk in the way of evil men.

 171.  Avoid it, and don't pass by it. Turn from it, and pass on.

 172.  For they don't sleep, unless they do evil. Their sleep is taken away, unless they make someone fall.

 173.  For they eat the bread of wickedness, and drink the wine of violence.

 174.  But the path of the righteous is like the dawning light, that shines more and more until the perfect day.

 175.  The way of the wicked is like darkness. They don't know what they stumble over.

 176.  My son, attend to my words. Turn your ear to my sayings.

 177.  Let them not depart from your eyes. Keep them in the midst of your heart.

 178.  For they are life to those who find them, and health to their whole body.

 179.  Keep your heart with all diligence, for out of it is the wellspring of life.

 180.  Put away from yourself a perverse mouth. Put corrupt lips far from you.

 181.  Let your eyes look straight ahead. Fix your gaze directly before you.

 182.  Make the path of your feet level. Let all of your ways be established.

 183.  Don't turn to the right hand nor to the left. Remove your foot from evil.

 184.  My son, pay attention to my wisdom. Turn your ear to my understanding:

 185.  For the lips of an adulteress drip honey. Her mouth is smoother than oil,

 186.  But in the end she is as bitter as wormwood, and as sharp as a two-edged sword.

 187.  Her feet go down to death. Her steps lead straight to Sheol.

 188.  She gives no thought to the way of life. Her ways are crooked, and she doesn't know it.

 189.  Now therefore, my sons, listen to me. Don't depart from the words of my mouth.

 190.  Remove your way far from her. Don't come near the door of her house,

 191.  You will groan at your latter end, when your flesh and your body are consumed,

 192.  I have come to the brink of utter ruin, in the midst of the gathered assembly."

 193.  Drink water out of your own cistern, running water out of your own well.

 194.  Should your springs overflow in the streets, streams of water in the public squares?

 195.  Let them be for yourself alone, not for strangers with you.

 196.  Let your spring be blessed. Rejoice in the wife of your youth.

 197.  A loving doe and a graceful deer—let her breasts satisfy you at all times. Be captivated always with her love.

 198.  For why should you, my son, be captivated with an adulteress? Why embrace the bosom of another?

 199.  The evil deeds of the wicked ensnare him. The cords of his sin hold him firmly.

 200.  He will die for lack of instruction. In the greatness of his folly, he will go astray.

 201.  My son, if you have become collateral for your neighbor, if you have struck your hands in pledge for a stranger;

 202.  You are trapped by the words of your mouth. You are ensnared with the words of your mouth.

 203.  Give no sleep to your eyes, nor slumber to your eyelids.

 204.  Free yourself, like a gazelle from the hand of the hunter, like a bird from the snare of the fowler.

 205.  Go to the ant, you sluggard. Consider her ways, and be wise;

 206.  How long will you sleep, sluggard? When will you arise out of your sleep?

 207.  A little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to sleep:

 208.  A worthless person, a man of iniquity, is he who walks with a perverse mouth;

 209.  Therefore his calamity will come suddenly. He will be broken suddenly, and that without remedy.

 210.  My son, keep your father's commandment, and don't forsake your mother's teaching.

 211.  Bind them continually on your heart. Tie them around your neck.

 212.  When you walk, it will lead you. When you sleep, it will watch over you. When you awake, it will talk with you.

 213.  For the commandment is a lamp, and the law is light. Reproofs of instruction are the way of life,

 214.  Don't lust after her beauty in your heart, neither let her captivate you with her eyelids.

 215.  For a prostitute reduces you to a piece of bread. The adulteress hunts for your precious life.

 216.  Can a man scoop fire into his lap, and his clothes not be burned?

 217.  Or can one walk on hot coals, and his feet not be scorched?

 218.  So is he who goes in to his neighbor's wife. Whoever touches her will not be unpunished.

 219.  Men don't despise a thief, if he steals to satisfy himself when he is hungry:

 220.  He who commits adultery with a woman is void of understanding. He who does it destroys his own soul.

 221.  He will get wounds and dishonor. His reproach will not be wiped away.

 222.  For jealousy arouses the fury of the husband. He won't spare in the day of vengeance.

 223.  He won't regard any ransom, neither will he rest content, though you give many gifts.

 224.  My son, keep my words. Lay up my commandments within you.

 225.  Keep my commandments and live! Guard my teaching as the apple of your eye.

 226.  Bind them on your fingers. Write them on the tablet of your heart.

 227.  Tell wisdom, "You are my sister." Call understanding your relative,

 228.  For at the window of my house, I looked out through my lattice.

 229.  I saw among the simple ones. I discerned among the youths a young man void of understanding,

 230.  Behold, there a woman met him with the attire of a prostitute, and with crafty intent.

 231.  She is loud and defiant. Her feet don't stay in her house.

 232.  Now she is in the streets, now in the squares, and lurking at every corner.

 233.  So she caught him, and kissed him. With an impudent face she said to him:

 234.  "Sacrifices of peace offerings are with me. This day I have paid my vows.

 235.  Therefore I came out to meet you, to diligently seek your face, and I have found you.

 236.  I have spread my couch with carpets of tapestry, with striped cloths of the yarn of Egypt.

 237.  I have perfumed my bed with myrrh, aloes, and cinnamon.

 238.  Come, let's take our fill of loving until the morning. Let's solace ourselves with loving.

 239.  For my husband isn't at home. He has gone on a long journey.

