CHOIR reading sheet - session 16
232 lines, about 30 minutes

Same mic, same room, same gain, same distance as every
other session. One continuous recording. Pause about one
second between lines. If you fluff a line, pause and say
the whole line again - do not stop recording.

Text: World English Bible (public domain).
==============================================================

   1.  Jesus said to them, "How many loaves do you have?" They said, "Seven, and a few small fish."

   2.  He commanded the multitude to sit down on the ground;

   3.  They all ate, and were filled. They took up seven baskets full of the broken pieces that were left over.

   4.  Those who ate were four thousand men, besides women and children.

   5.  Then he sent away the multitudes, got into the boat, and came into the borders of Magdala.

   6.  The Pharisees and Sadducees came, and testing him, asked him to show them a sign from heaven.

   7.  But he answered them, "When it is evening, you say, 'It will be fair weather, for the sky is red.'

   8.  The disciples came to the other side and had forgotten to take bread.

   9.  Jesus said to them, "Take heed and beware of the yeast of the Pharisees and Sadducees."

  10.  They reasoned among themselves, saying, "We brought no bread."

  11.  Jesus, perceiving it, said, "Why do you reason among yourselves, you of little faith, 'because you have brought no bread?'

  12.  Don't you yet perceive, neither remember the five loaves for the five thousand, and how many baskets you took up?

  13.  Nor the seven loaves for the four thousand, and how many baskets you took up?

  14.  How is it that you don't perceive that I didn't speak to you concerning bread? But beware of the yeast of the Pharisees and Sadducees."

  15.  Then they understood that he didn't tell them to beware of the yeast of bread, but of the teaching of the Pharisees and Sadducees.

  16.  They said, "Some say John the Baptizer, some, Elijah, and others, Jeremiah, or one of the prophets."

  17.  He said to them, "But who do you say that I am?"

  18.  Simon Peter answered, "You are the Christ, the Son of the living God."

  19.  Then he commanded the disciples that they should tell no one that he was Jesus the Christ.

  20.  Peter took him aside, and began to rebuke him, saying, "Far be it from you, Lord! This will never be done to you."

  21.  Then Jesus said to his disciples, "If anyone desires to come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me.

  22.  For whoever desires to save his life will lose it, and whoever will lose his life for my sake will find it.

  23.  After six days, Jesus took with him Peter, James, and John his brother, and brought them up into a high mountain by themselves.

  24.  He was transfigured before them. His face shone like the sun, and his garments became as white as the light.

  25.  Behold, Moses and Elijah appeared to them talking with him.

  26.  When the disciples heard it, they fell on their faces, and were very afraid.

  27.  Jesus came and touched them and said, "Get up, and don't be afraid."

  28.  Lifting up their eyes, they saw no one, except Jesus alone.

  29.  His disciples asked him, saying, "Then why do the scribes say that Elijah must come first?"

  30.  Jesus answered them, "Elijah indeed comes first, and will restore all things,

  31.  Then the disciples understood that he spoke to them of John the Baptizer.

  32.  When they came to the multitude, a man came to him, kneeling down to him, saying,

  33.  "Lord, have mercy on my son, for he is epileptic, and suffers grievously; for he often falls into the fire, and often into the water.

  34.  So I brought him to your disciples, and they could not cure him."

  35.  Jesus answered, "Faithless and perverse generation! How long will I be with you? How long will I bear with you? Bring him here to me."

  36.  Jesus rebuked him, the demon went out of him, and the boy was cured from that hour.

  37.  Then the disciples came to Jesus privately, and said, "Why weren't we able to cast it out?"

  38.  But this kind doesn't go out except by prayer and fasting."

  39.  While they were staying in Galilee, Jesus said to them, "The Son of Man is about to be delivered up into the hands of men,

  40.  When they had come to Capernaum, those who collected the didrachma coins came to Peter, and said, "Doesn't your teacher pay the didrachma?"

  41.  Peter said to him, "From strangers." Jesus said to him, "Therefore the children are exempt.

  42.  In that hour the disciples came to Jesus, saying, "Who then is greatest in the Kingdom of Heaven?"

  43.  Jesus called a little child to himself, and set him in their midst,

  44.  Whoever therefore humbles himself as this little child, the same is the greatest in the Kingdom of Heaven.

  45.  Whoever receives one such little child in my name receives me,

  46.  For the Son of Man came to save that which was lost.

  47.  If he finds it, most certainly I tell you, he rejoices over it more than over the ninety-nine which have not gone astray.

  48.  Even so it is not the will of your Father who is in heaven that one of these little ones should perish.

  49.  For where two or three are gathered together in my name, there I am in their midst."

  50.  Then Peter came and said to him, "Lord, how often shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? Until seven times?"

  51.  Jesus said to him, "I don't tell you until seven times, but, until seventy times seven.

  52.  Therefore the Kingdom of Heaven is like a certain king, who wanted to reconcile accounts with his servants.

  53.  When he had begun to reconcile, one was brought to him who owed him ten thousand talents.

  54.  The servant therefore fell down and kneeled before him, saying, 'Lord, have patience with me, and I will repay you all!'

  55.  The lord of that servant, being moved with compassion, released him, and forgave him the debt.

  56.  "So his fellow servant fell down at his feet and begged him, saying, 'Have patience with me, and I will repay you!'

  57.  He would not, but went and cast him into prison, until he should pay back that which was due.

  58.  So when his fellow servants saw what was done, they were exceedingly sorry, and came and told to their lord all that was done.

  59.  Then his lord called him in, and said to him, 'You wicked servant! I forgave you all that debt, because you begged me.

  60.  Shouldn't you also have had mercy on your fellow servant, even as I had mercy on you?'

  61.  His lord was angry, and delivered him to the tormentors, until he should pay all that was due to him.

  62.  So my heavenly Father will also do to you, if you don't each forgive your brother from your hearts for his misdeeds."

  63.  It happened when Jesus had finished these words, he departed from Galilee, and came into the borders of Judea beyond the Jordan.

  64.  Great multitudes followed him, and he healed them there.

  65.  Pharisees came to him, testing him, and saying, "Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife for any reason?"

  66.  He answered, "Haven't you read that he who made them from the beginning made them male and female,

  67.  So that they are no more two, but one flesh. What therefore God has joined together, don't let man tear apart."

  68.  They asked him, "Why then did Moses command us to give her a bill of divorce, and divorce her?"

  69.  His disciples said to him, "If this is the case of the man with his wife, it is not expedient to marry."

  70.  But he said to them, "Not all men can receive this saying, but those to whom it is given.

  71.  Then little children were brought to him, that he should lay his hands on them and pray; and the disciples rebuked them.

  72.  But Jesus said, "Allow the little children, and don't forbid them to come to me; for the Kingdom of Heaven belongs to ones like these."

  73.  He laid his hands on them, and departed from there.

  74.  Behold, one came to him and said, "Good teacher, what good thing shall I do, that I may have eternal life?"

  75.  'Honor your father and mother.' And, 'You shall love your neighbor as yourself.'"

  76.  The young man said to him, "All these things I have observed from my youth. What do I still lack?"

  77.  But when the young man heard the saying, he went away sad, for he was one who had great possessions.

  78.  Jesus said to his disciples, "Most certainly I say to you, a rich man will enter into the Kingdom of Heaven with difficulty.

  79.  When the disciples heard it, they were exceedingly astonished, saying, "Who then can be saved?"

  80.  Looking at them, Jesus said, "With men this is impossible, but with God all things are possible."

  81.  Then Peter answered, "Behold, we have left everything, and followed you. What then will we have?"

  82.  But many will be last who are first; and first who are last.

  83.  When he had agreed with the laborers for a denarius a day, he sent them into his vineyard.

  84.  He went out about the third hour, and saw others standing idle in the marketplace.

  85.  To them he said, 'You also go into the vineyard, and whatever is right I will give you.' So they went their way.

  86.  Again he went out about the sixth and the ninth hour, and did likewise.

  87.  About the eleventh hour he went out, and found others standing idle. He said to them, 'Why do you stand here all day idle?'

  88.  "When those who were hired at about the eleventh hour came, they each received a denarius.

  89.  When the first came, they supposed that they would receive more; and they likewise each received a denarius.

  90.  When they received it, they murmured against the master of the household,

  91.  "But he answered one of them, 'Friend, I am doing you no wrong. Didn't you agree with me for a denarius?

  92.  Take that which is yours, and go your way. It is my desire to give to this last just as much as to you.

  93.  Isn't it lawful for me to do what I want to with what I own? Or is your eye evil, because I am good?'

  94.  So the last will be first, and the first last. For many are called, but few are chosen."

  95.  As Jesus was going up to Jerusalem, he took the twelve disciples aside, and on the way he said to them,

  96.  Then the mother of the sons of Zebedee came to him with her sons, kneeling and asking a certain thing of him.

  97.  When the ten heard it, they were indignant with the two brothers.

  98.  It shall not be so among you, but whoever desires to become great among you shall be your servant.

  99.  Whoever desires to be first among you shall be your bondservant,

 100.  As they went out from Jericho, a great multitude followed him.

 101.  Jesus stood still, and called them, and asked, "What do you want me to do for you?"

 102.  They told him, "Lord, that our eyes may be opened."

 103.  Jesus, being moved with compassion, touched their eyes; and immediately their eyes received their sight, and they followed him.

 104.  When they drew near to Jerusalem, and came to Bethsphage, to the Mount of Olives, then Jesus sent two disciples,

 105.  If anyone says anything to you, you shall say, 'The Lord needs them,' and immediately he will send them."

 106.  All this was done, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken through the prophet, saying,

 107.  "Tell the daughter of Zion, behold, your King comes to you, humble, and riding on a donkey, on a colt, the foal of a donkey."

 108.  The disciples went, and did just as Jesus commanded them,

 109.  A very great multitude spread their clothes on the road. Others cut branches from the trees, and spread them on the road.

 110.  When he had come into Jerusalem, all the city was stirred up, saying, "Who is this?"

 111.  The multitudes said, "This is the prophet, Jesus, from Nazareth of Galilee."

 112.  He said to them, "It is written, 'My house shall be called a house of prayer,' but you have made it a den of robbers!"

 113.  The blind and the lame came to him in the temple, and he healed them.

 114.  He left them, and went out of the city to Bethany, and lodged there.

 115.  Now in the morning, as he returned to the city, he was hungry.

 116.  When the disciples saw it, they marveled, saying, "How did the fig tree immediately wither away?"

 117.  All things, whatever you ask in prayer, believing, you will receive."

 118.  But if we say, 'From men,' we fear the multitude, for all hold John as a prophet."

 119.  They answered Jesus, and said, "We don't know." He also said to them, "Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things.

 120.  But what do you think? A man had two sons, and he came to the first, and said, 'Son, go work today in my vineyard.'

 121.  He answered, 'I will not,' but afterward he changed his mind, and went.

 122.  He came to the second, and said the same thing. He answered, 'I go, sir,' but he didn't go.

 123.  When the season for the fruit drew near, he sent his servants to the farmers, to receive his fruit.

 124.  The farmers took his servants, beat one, killed another, and stoned another.

 125.  Again, he sent other servants more than the first: and they treated them the same way.

 126.  But afterward he sent to them his son, saying, 'They will respect my son.'

 127.  But the farmers, when they saw the son, said among themselves, 'This is the heir. Come, let's kill him, and seize his inheritance.'

 128.  So they took him, and threw him out of the vineyard, and killed him.

 129.  When therefore the lord of the vineyard comes, what will he do to those farmers?"

 130.  "Therefore I tell you, the Kingdom of God will be taken away from you, and will be given to a nation bringing forth its fruit.

 131.  He who falls on this stone will be broken to pieces, but on whomever it will fall, it will scatter him as dust."

 132.  When the chief priests and the Pharisees heard his parables, they perceived that he spoke about them.

 133.  When they sought to seize him, they feared the multitudes, because they considered him to be a prophet.

 134.  Jesus answered and spoke again in parables to them, saying,

 135.  "The Kingdom of Heaven is like a certain king, who made a marriage feast for his son,

 136.  But they made light of it, and went their ways, one to his own farm, another to his merchandise,

 137.  When the king heard that, he was angry, and sent his armies, destroyed those murderers, and burned their city.

 138.  "Then he said to his servants, 'The wedding is ready, but those who were invited weren't worthy.

 139.  Go therefore to the intersections of the highways, and as many as you may find, invite to the marriage feast.'

 140.  Those servants went out into the highways, and gathered together as many as they found, both bad and good. The wedding was filled with guests.

 141.  But when the king came in to see the guests, he saw there a man who didn't have on wedding clothing,

 142.  For many are called, but few chosen."

 143.  Then the Pharisees went and took counsel how they might entrap him in his talk.

 144.  Tell us therefore, what do you think? Is it lawful to pay taxes to Caesar, or not?"

 145.  But Jesus perceived their wickedness, and said, "Why do you test me, you hypocrites?

 146.  Show me the tax money." They brought to him a denarius.

 147.  He asked them, "Whose is this image and inscription?"

 148.  When they heard it, they marveled, and left him, and went away.

 149.  On that day Sadducees (those who say that there is no resurrection) came to him. They asked him,

 150.  Now there were with us seven brothers. The first married and died, and having no seed left his wife to his brother.

 151.  In the same way, the second also, and the third, to the seventh.

 152.  After them all, the woman died.

 153.  In the resurrection therefore, whose wife will she be of the seven? For they all had her."

 154.  But Jesus answered them, "You are mistaken, not knowing the Scriptures, nor the power of God.

 155.  For in the resurrection they neither marry, nor are given in marriage, but are like God's angels in heaven.

 156.  But concerning the resurrection of the dead, haven't you read that which was spoken to you by God, saying,

 157.  When the multitudes heard it, they were astonished at his teaching.

 158.  But the Pharisees, when they heard that he had silenced the Sadducees, gathered themselves together.

 159.  One of them, a lawyer, asked him a question, testing him.

 160.  "Teacher, which is the greatest commandment in the law?"

 161.  Jesus said to him, "'You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind.'

 162.  This is the first and great commandment.

 163.  A second likewise is this, 'You shall love your neighbor as yourself.'

 164.  The whole law and the prophets depend on these two commandments."

 165.  Now while the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them a question,

 166.  He said to them, "How then does David in the Spirit call him Lord, saying,

 167.  'The Lord said to my Lord, sit on my right hand, until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet?'

 168.  "If then David calls him Lord, how is he his son?"

 169.  No one was able to answer him a word, neither did any man dare ask him any more questions from that day forth.

 170.  Then Jesus spoke to the multitudes and to his disciples,

 171.  All things therefore whatever they tell you to observe, observe and do, but don't do their works; for they say, and don't do.

 172.  But all their works they do to be seen by men. They make their phylacteries broad, enlarge the fringes of their garments,

 173.  But don't you be called 'Rabbi,' for one is your teacher, the Christ, and all of you are brothers.

 174.  Call no man on the earth your father, for one is your Father, he who is in heaven.

 175.  Neither be called masters, for one is your master, the Christ.

 176.  But he who is greatest among you will be your servant.

 177.  Whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be exalted.

 178.  You blind fools! For which is greater, the gold, or the temple that sanctifies the gold?

 179.  'Whoever swears by the altar, it is nothing; but whoever swears by the gift that is on it, he is obligated?'

 180.  You blind fools! For which is greater, the gift, or the altar that sanctifies the gift?

 181.  He therefore who swears by the altar, swears by it, and by everything on it.

 182.  He who swears by the temple, swears by it, and by him who was living in it.

 183.  He who swears by heaven, swears by the throne of God, and by him who sits on it.

 184.  You blind guides, who strain out a gnat, and swallow a camel!

 185.  You blind Pharisee, first clean the inside of the cup and of the platter, that its outside may become clean also.

 186.  Even so you also outwardly appear righteous to men, but inwardly you are full of hypocrisy and iniquity.

 187.  "Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you build the tombs of the prophets, and decorate the tombs of the righteous,

 188.  Therefore you testify to yourselves that you are children of those who killed the prophets.

 189.  Fill up, then, the measure of your fathers.

 190.  You serpents, you offspring of vipers, how will you escape the judgment of Gehenna?

 191.  Most certainly I tell you, all these things will come upon this generation.

 192.  Behold, your house is left to you desolate.

 193.  Jesus went out from the temple, and was going on his way. His disciples came to him to show him the buildings of the temple.

 194.  Jesus answered them, "Be careful that no one leads you astray.

 195.  For many will come in my name, saying, 'I am the Christ,' and will lead many astray.

 196.  You will hear of wars and rumors of wars. See that you aren't troubled, for all this must happen, but the end is not yet.

 197.  For nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom; and there will be famines, plagues, and earthquakes in various places.

 198.  But all these things are the beginning of birth pains.

 199.  Then they will deliver you up to oppression, and will kill you. You will be hated by all of the nations for my name's sake.

 200.  Then many will stumble, and will deliver up one another, and will hate one another.

 201.  Many false prophets will arise, and will lead many astray.

 202.  Because iniquity will be multiplied, the love of many will grow cold.

 203.  But he who endures to the end, the same will be saved.

 204.  "When, therefore, you see the abomination of desolation, which was spoken of through Daniel the prophet, standing in the holy place (let the reader understand),

 205.  Let him who is on the housetop not go down to take out things that are in his house.

 206.  Let him who is in the field not return back to get his clothes.

 207.  But woe to those who are with child and to nursing mothers in those days!

 208.  Pray that your flight will not be in the winter, nor on a Sabbath,

 209.  Unless those days had been shortened, no flesh would have been saved. But for the sake of the chosen ones, those days will be shortened.

 210.  "Then if any man tells you, 'Behold, here is the Christ,' or, 'There,' don't believe it.

 211.  "Behold, I have told you beforehand.

 212.  If therefore they tell you, 'Behold, he is in the wilderness,' don't go out; 'Behold, he is in the inner rooms,' don't believe it.

 213.  For as the lightning flashes from the east, and is seen even to the west, so will be the coming of the Son of Man.

 214.  For wherever the carcass is, there is where the vultures gather together.

 215.  Even so you also, when you see all these things, know that it is near, even at the doors.

 216.  Most certainly I tell you, this generation will not pass away, until all these things are accomplished.

 217.  But no one knows of that day and hour, not even the angels of heaven, but my Father only.

 218.  "As the days of Noah were, so will be the coming of the Son of Man.

 219.  Then two men will be in the field: one will be taken and one will be left;

 220.  Watch therefore, for you don't know in what hour your Lord comes.

 221.  Therefore also be ready, for in an hour that you don't expect, the Son of Man will come.

 222.  "Who then is the faithful and wise servant, whom his lord has set over his household, to give them their food in due season?

 223.  Blessed is that servant whom his lord finds doing so when he comes.

 224.  Most certainly I tell you that he will set him over all that he has.

 225.  But if that evil servant should say in his heart, 'My lord is delaying his coming,'

 226.  "Then the Kingdom of Heaven will be like ten virgins, who took their lamps, and went out to meet the bridegroom.

 227.  Five of them were foolish, and five were wise.

 228.  Those who were foolish, when they took their lamps, took no oil with them,

 229.  Now while the bridegroom delayed, they all slumbered and slept.

 230.  But at midnight there was a cry, 'Behold! The bridegroom is coming! Come out to meet him!'

 231.  Then all those virgins arose, and trimmed their lamps.

 232.  The foolish said to the wise, 'Give us some of your oil, for our lamps are going out.'

