CHOIR reading sheet - session 14
236 lines, about 30 minutes

Same mic, same room, same gain, same distance as every
other session. One continuous recording. Pause about one
second between lines. If you fluff a line, pause and say
the whole line again - do not stop recording.

Text: World English Bible (public domain).
==============================================================

   1.  Be wise, my son, and bring joy to my heart, then I can answer my tormentor.

   2.  A prudent man sees danger and takes refuge; but the simple pass on, and suffer for it.

   3.  Take his garment when he puts up collateral for a stranger. Hold it for a wayward woman!

   4.  He who blesses his neighbor with a loud voice early in the morning, it will be taken as a curse by him.

   5.  A continual dropping on a rainy day and a contentious wife are alike:

   6.  Iron sharpens iron; so a man sharpens his friend's countenance.

   7.  Whoever tends the fig tree shall eat its fruit. He who looks after his master shall be honored.

   8.  As water reflects a face, so a man's heart reflects the man.

   9.  Sheol and Abaddon are never satisfied; and a man's eyes are never satisfied.

  10.  The crucible is for silver, and the furnace for gold; but man is refined by his praise.

  11.  Though you grind a fool in a mortar with a pestle along with grain, yet his foolishness will not be removed from him.

  12.  Know well the state of your flocks, and pay attention to your herds:

  13.  The hay is removed, and the new growth appears, the grasses of the hills are gathered in.

  14.  The lambs are for your clothing, and the goats are the price of a field.

  15.  There will be plenty of goats' milk for your food, for your family's food, and for the nourishment of your servant girls.

  16.  The wicked flee when no one pursues; but the righteous are as bold as a lion.

  17.  In rebellion, a land has many rulers, but order is maintained by a man of understanding and knowledge.

  18.  A needy man who oppresses the poor is like a driving rain which leaves no crops.

  19.  Those who forsake the law praise the wicked; but those who keep the law contend with them.

  20.  Better is the poor who walks in his integrity, than he who is perverse in his ways, and he is rich.

  21.  Whoever keeps the law is a wise son; but he who is a companion of gluttons shames his father.

  22.  He who increases his wealth by excessive interest gathers it for one who has pity on the poor.

  23.  He who turns away his ear from hearing the law, even his prayer is an abomination.

  24.  Whoever causes the upright to go astray in an evil way, he will fall into his own trap; but the blameless will inherit good.

  25.  The rich man is wise in his own eyes; but the poor who has understanding sees through him.

  26.  When the righteous triumph, there is great glory; but when the wicked rise, men hide themselves.

  27.  He who conceals his sins doesn't prosper, but whoever confesses and renounces them finds mercy.

  28.  Blessed is the man who always fears; but one who hardens his heart falls into trouble.

  29.  As a roaring lion or a charging bear, so is a wicked ruler over helpless people.

  30.  A tyrannical ruler lacks judgment. One who hates ill-gotten gain will have long days.

  31.  A man who is tormented by life blood will be a fugitive until death; no one will support him.

  32.  Whoever walks blamelessly is kept safe; but one with perverse ways will fall suddenly.

  33.  One who works his land will have an abundance of food; but one who chases fantasies will have his fill of poverty.

  34.  A faithful man is rich with blessings; but one who is eager to be rich will not go unpunished.

  35.  To show partiality is not good; yet a man will do wrong for a piece of bread.

  36.  A stingy man hurries after riches, and doesn't know that poverty waits for him.

  37.  One who rebukes a man will afterward find more favor than one who flatters with the tongue.

  38.  Whoever robs his father or his mother, and says, "It's not wrong." He is a partner with a destroyer.

  39.  One who trusts in himself is a fool; but one who walks in wisdom is kept safe.

  40.  One who gives to the poor has no lack; but one who closes his eyes will have many curses.

  41.  When the wicked rise, men hide themselves; but when they perish, the righteous thrive.

  42.  He who is often rebuked and stiffens his neck will be destroyed suddenly, with no remedy.

  43.  When the righteous thrive, the people rejoice; but when the wicked rule, the people groan.

  44.  Whoever loves wisdom brings joy to his father; but a companion of prostitutes squanders his wealth.

  45.  The king by justice makes the land stable, but he who takes bribes tears it down.

  46.  A man who flatters his neighbor spreads a net for his feet.

  47.  An evil man is snared by his sin, but the righteous can sing and be glad.

  48.  The righteous care about justice for the poor. The wicked aren't concerned about knowledge.

  49.  Mockers stir up a city, but wise men turn away anger.

  50.  If a wise man goes to court with a foolish man, the fool rages or scoffs, and there is no peace.

  51.  The bloodthirsty hate a man of integrity; and they seek the life of the upright.

  52.  A fool vents all of his anger, but a wise man brings himself under control.

  53.  If a ruler listens to lies, all of his officials are wicked.

  54.  The king who fairly judges the poor, his throne shall be established forever.

  55.  The rod of correction gives wisdom, but a child left to himself causes shame to his mother.

  56.  When the wicked increase, sin increases; but the righteous will see their downfall.

  57.  Correct your son, and he will give you peace; yes, he will bring delight to your soul.

  58.  Where there is no revelation, the people cast off restraint; but one who keeps the law is blessed.

  59.  A servant can't be corrected by words. Though he understands, yet he will not respond.

  60.  Do you see a man who is hasty in his words? There is more hope for a fool than for him.

  61.  He who pampers his servant from youth will have him become a son in the end.

  62.  An angry man stirs up strife, and a wrathful man abounds in sin.

  63.  A man's pride brings him low, but one of lowly spirit gains honor.

  64.  Whoever is an accomplice of a thief is an enemy of his own soul. He takes an oath, but dares not testify.

  65.  A dishonest man detests the righteous, and the upright in their ways detest the wicked.

  66.  The words of Agur the son of Jakeh, the oracle: the man says to Ithiel, to Ithiel and Ucal:

  67.  "Surely I am the most ignorant man, and don't have a man's understanding.

  68.  I have not learned wisdom, neither do I have the knowledge of the Holy One.

  69.  "Every word of God is flawless. He is a shield to those who take refuge in him.

  70.  Don't you add to his words, lest he reprove you, and you be found a liar.

  71.  "Two things I have asked of you; don't deny me before I die:

  72.  Remove far from me falsehood and lies. Give me neither poverty nor riches. Feed me with the food that is needful for me;

  73.  "Don't slander a servant to his master, lest he curse you, and you be held guilty.

  74.  There is a generation that curses their father, and doesn't bless their mother.

  75.  There is a generation that is pure in their own eyes, yet are not washed from their filthiness.

  76.  There is a generation, oh how lofty are their eyes! Their eyelids are lifted up.

  77.  "The leach has two daughters: 'Give, give.' "There are three things that are never satisfied; four that don't say, 'Enough:'

  78.  Sheol, the barren womb; the earth that is not satisfied with water; and the fire that doesn't say, 'Enough.'

  79.  "There are three things which are too amazing for me, four which I don't understand:

  80.  "So is the way of an adulterous woman: she eats and wipes her mouth, and says, 'I have done nothing wrong.'

  81.  "For three things the earth tremble, and under four, it can't bear up:

  82.  For a servant when he is king; a fool when he is filled with food;

  83.  "There are four things which are little on the earth, but they are exceedingly wise:

  84.  The conies are but a feeble folk, yet make they their houses in the rocks.

  85.  The locusts have no king, yet they advance in ranks.

  86.  You can catch a lizard with your hands, yet it is in kings' palaces.

  87.  "There are three things which are stately in their march, four which are stately in going:

  88.  The lion, which is mightiest among animals, and doesn't turn away for any;

  89.  "If you have done foolishly in lifting up yourself, or if you have thought evil, put your hand over your mouth.

  90.  The words of king Lemuel; the oracle which his mother taught him.

  91.  "Oh, my son! Oh, son of my womb! Oh, son of my vows!

  92.  Don't give your strength to women, nor your ways to that which destroys kings.

  93.  It is not for kings, Lemuel; it is not for kings to drink wine; nor for princes to say, 'Where is strong drink?'

  94.  Give strong drink to him who is ready to perish; and wine to the bitter in soul:

  95.  Let him drink, and forget his poverty, and remember his misery no more.

  96.  Open your mouth for the mute, in the cause of all who are left desolate.

  97.  Open your mouth, judge righteously, and serve justice to the poor and needy."

  98.  Who can find a worthy woman? For her price is far above rubies.

  99.  The heart of her husband trusts in her. He shall have no lack of gain.

 100.  She does him good, and not harm, all the days of her life.

 101.  She seeks wool and flax, and works eagerly with her hands.

 102.  She is like the merchant ships. She brings her bread from afar.

 103.  She rises also while it is yet night, gives food to her household, and portions for her servant girls.

 104.  She considers a field, and buys it. With the fruit of her hands, she plants a vineyard.

 105.  She arms her waist with strength, and makes her arms strong.

 106.  She perceives that her merchandise is profitable. Her lamp doesn't go out by night.

 107.  She lays her hands to the distaff, and her hands hold the spindle.

 108.  She opens her arms to the poor; yes, she extends her hands to the needy.

 109.  She is not afraid of the snow for her household; for all her household are clothed with scarlet.

 110.  She makes for herself carpets of tapestry. Her clothing is fine linen and purple.

 111.  Her husband is respected in the gates, when he sits among the elders of the land.

 112.  She makes linen garments and sells them, and delivers sashes to the merchant.

 113.  Strength and dignity are her clothing. She laughs at the time to come.

 114.  She opens her mouth with wisdom. Faithful instruction is on her tongue.

 115.  She looks well to the ways of her household, and doesn't eat the bread of idleness.

 116.  Her children rise up and call her blessed. Her husband also praises her:

 117.  "Many women do noble things, but you excel them all."

 118.  Give her of the fruit of her hands! Let her works praise her in the gates!

 119.  The book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham.

 120.  Abraham became the father of Isaac. Isaac became the father of Jacob. Jacob became the father of Judah and his brothers.

 121.  Judah became the father of Perez and Zerah by Tamar. Perez became the father of Hezron. Hezron became the father of Ram.

 122.  Ram became the father of Amminadab. Amminadab became the father of Nahshon. Nahshon became the father of Salmon.

 123.  Salmon became the father of Boaz by Rahab. Boaz became the father of Obed by Ruth. Obed became the father of Jesse.

 124.  Jesse became the father of King David. David became the father of Solomon by her who had been the wife of Uriah.

 125.  Solomon became the father of Rehoboam. Rehoboam became the father of Abijah. Abijah became the father of Asa.

 126.  Asa became the father of Jehoshaphat. Jehoshaphat became the father of Joram. Joram became the father of Uzziah.

 127.  Uzziah became the father of Jotham. Jotham became the father of Ahaz. Ahaz became the father of Hezekiah.

 128.  Hezekiah became the father of Manasseh. Manasseh became the father of Amon. Amon became the father of Josiah.

 129.  Josiah became the father of Jechoniah and his brothers, at the time of the exile to Babylon.

 130.  After the exile to Babylon, Jechoniah became the father of Shealtiel. Shealtiel became the father of Zerubbabel.

 131.  Zerubbabel became the father of Abiud. Abiud became the father of Eliakim. Eliakim became the father of Azor.

 132.  Azor became the father of Sadoc. Sadoc became the father of Achim. Achim became the father of Eliud.

 133.  Eliud became the father of Eleazar. Eleazar became the father of Matthan. Matthan became the father of Jacob.

 134.  Jacob became the father of Joseph, the husband of Mary, from whom was born Jesus, who is called Christ.

 135.  Joseph, her husband, being a righteous man, and not willing to make her a public example, intended to put her away secretly.

 136.  She shall bring forth a son. You shall call his name Jesus, for it is he who shall save his people from their sins."

 137.  Now all this has happened, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the Lord through the prophet, saying,

 138.  Joseph arose from his sleep, and did as the angel of the Lord commanded him, and took his wife to himself;

 139.  Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of King Herod, behold, wise men from the east came to Jerusalem, saying,

 140.  "Where is he who is born King of the Jews? For we saw his star in the east, and have come to worship him."

 141.  When King Herod heard it, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him.

 142.  Gathering together all the chief priests and scribes of the people, he asked them where the Christ would be born.

 143.  They said to him, "In Bethlehem of Judea, for this is written through the prophet,

 144.  Then Herod secretly called the wise men, and learned from them exactly what time the star appeared.

 145.  When they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceedingly great joy.

 146.  Being warned in a dream that they shouldn't return to Herod, they went back to their own country another way.

 147.  He arose and took the young child and his mother by night, and departed into Egypt,

 148.  Then that which was spoken by Jeremiah the prophet was fulfilled, saying,

 149.  "A voice was heard in Ramah, lamentation, weeping and great mourning, Rachel weeping for her children; she wouldn't be comforted, because they are no more."

 150.  But when Herod was dead, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared in a dream to Joseph in Egypt, saying,

 151.  He arose and took the young child and his mother, and came into the land of Israel.

 152.  In those days, John the Baptizer came, preaching in the wilderness of Judea, saying,

 153.  "Repent, for the Kingdom of Heaven is at hand!"

 154.  Now John himself wore clothing made of camel's hair, with a leather belt around his waist. His food was locusts and wild honey.

 155.  Then people from Jerusalem, all of Judea, and all the region around the Jordan went out to him.

 156.  They were baptized by him in the Jordan, confessing their sins.

 157.  Therefore bring forth fruit worthy of repentance!

 158.  Then Jesus came from Galilee to the Jordan to John, to be baptized by him.

 159.  But John would have hindered him, saying, "I need to be baptized by you, and you come to me?"

 160.  But Jesus, answering, said to him, "Allow it now, for this is the fitting way for us to fulfill all righteousness." Then he allowed him.

 161.  Behold, a voice out of the heavens said, "This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased."

 162.  Then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil.

 163.  When he had fasted forty days and forty nights, he was hungry afterward.

 164.  The tempter came and said to him, "If you are the Son of God, command that these stones become bread."

 165.  But he answered, "It is written, 'Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God.'"

 166.  Then the devil took him into the holy city. He set him on the pinnacle of the temple,

 167.  Jesus said to him, "Again, it is written, 'You shall not test the Lord, your God.'"

 168.  Again, the devil took him to an exceedingly high mountain, and showed him all the kingdoms of the world, and their glory.

 169.  He said to him, "I will give you all of these things, if you will fall down and worship me."

 170.  Then the devil left him, and behold, angels came and served him.

 171.  Now when Jesus heard that John was delivered up, he withdrew into Galilee.

 172.  Leaving Nazareth, he came and lived in Capernaum, which is by the sea, in the region of Zebulun and Naphtali,

 173.  "The land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, toward the sea, beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles,

 174.  From that time, Jesus began to preach, and to say, "Repent! For the Kingdom of Heaven is at hand."

 175.  He said to them, "Come after me, and I will make you fishers for men."

 176.  They immediately left their nets and followed him.

 177.  They immediately left the boat and their father, and followed him.

 178.  Great multitudes from Galilee, Decapolis, Jerusalem, Judea and from beyond the Jordan followed him.

 179.  Seeing the multitudes, he went up onto the mountain. When he had sat down, his disciples came to him.

 180.  He opened his mouth and taught them, saying,

 181.  "Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the Kingdom of Heaven.

 182.  Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted.

 183.  Blessed are the gentle, for they shall inherit the earth.

 184.  Blessed are those who hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled.

 185.  Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy.

 186.  Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God.

 187.  Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called children of God.

 188.  Blessed are those who have been persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the Kingdom of Heaven.

 189.  "Blessed are you when people reproach you, persecute you, and say all kinds of evil against you falsely, for my sake.

 190.  Rejoice, and be exceedingly glad, for great is your reward in heaven. For that is how they persecuted the prophets who were before you.

 191.  You are the light of the world. A city located on a hill can't be hidden.

 192.  Even so, let your light shine before men; that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father who is in heaven.

 193.  "Don't think that I came to destroy the law or the prophets. I didn't come to destroy, but to fulfill.

 194.  "If therefore you are offering your gift at the altar, and there remember that your brother has anything against you,

 195.  Most certainly I tell you, you shall by no means get out of there, until you have paid the last penny.

 196.  "You have heard that it was said, 'You shall not commit adultery;'

 197.  "It was also said, 'Whoever shall put away his wife, let him give her a writing of divorce,'

 198.  Neither shall you swear by your head, for you can't make one hair white or black.

 199.  But let your 'Yes' be 'Yes' and your 'No' be 'No.' Whatever is more than these is of the evil one.

 200.  "You have heard that it was said, 'An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth.'

 201.  But I tell you, don't resist him who is evil; but whoever strikes you on your right cheek, turn to him the other also.

 202.  If anyone sues you to take away your coat, let him have your cloak also.

 203.  Whoever compels you to go one mile, go with him two.

 204.  Give to him who asks you, and don't turn away him who desires to borrow from you.

 205.  "You have heard that it was said, 'You shall love your neighbor, and hate your enemy.'

 206.  For if you love those who love you, what reward do you have? Don't even the tax collectors do the same?

 207.  If you only greet your friends, what more do you do than others? Don't even the tax collectors do the same?

 208.  Therefore you shall be perfect, just as your Father in heaven is perfect.

 209.  But when you do merciful deeds, don't let your left hand know what your right hand does,

 210.  In praying, don't use vain repetitions, as the Gentiles do; for they think that they will be heard for their much speaking.

 211.  Therefore don't be like them, for your Father knows what things you need, before you ask him.

 212.  Pray like this: 'Our Father in heaven, may your name be kept holy.

 213.  Let your Kingdom come. Let your will be done, as in heaven, so on earth.

 214.  Give us today our daily bread.

 215.  Forgive us our debts, as we also forgive our debtors.

 216.  Bring us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. For yours is the Kingdom, the power, and the glory forever. Amen.'

 217.  "For if you forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you.

 218.  But if you don't forgive men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses.

 219.  But you, when you fast, anoint your head, and wash your face;

 220.  "Don't lay up treasures for yourselves on the earth, where moth and rust consume, and where thieves break through and steal;

 221.  "The lamp of the body is the eye. If therefore your eye is sound, your whole body will be full of light.

 222.  "Which of you, by being anxious, can add one moment to his lifespan?

 223.  Why are you anxious about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow. They don't toil, neither do they spin,

 224.  "Therefore don't be anxious, saying, 'What will we eat?', 'What will we drink?' or, 'With what will we be clothed?'

 225.  For the Gentiles seek after all these things; for your heavenly Father knows that you need all these things.

 226.  But seek first God's Kingdom, and his righteousness; and all these things will be given to you as well.

 227.  Therefore don't be anxious for tomorrow, for tomorrow will be anxious for itself. Each day's own evil is sufficient.

 228.  "Don't judge, so that you won't be judged.

 229.  For with whatever judgment you judge, you will be judged; and with whatever measure you measure, it will be measured to you.

 230.  Why do you see the speck that is in your brother's eye, but don't consider the beam that is in your own eye?

 231.  Or how will you tell your brother, 'Let me remove the speck from your eye;' and behold, the beam is in your own eye?

 232.  "Ask, and it will be given you. Seek, and you will find. Knock, and it will be opened for you.

 233.  Or who is there among you, who, if his son asks him for bread, will give him a stone?

 234.  Or if he asks for a fish, who will give him a serpent?

 235.  Therefore whatever you desire for men to do to you, you shall also do to them; for this is the law and the prophets.

 236.  How narrow is the gate, and restricted is the way that leads to life! Few are those who find it.

