CHOIR reading sheet - session 1
226 lines, about 30 minutes

Same mic, same room, same gain, same distance as every
other session. One continuous recording. Pause about one
second between lines. If you fluff a line, pause and say
the whole line again - do not stop recording.

Text: World English Bible (public domain).
==============================================================

   1.  As it is written in the prophets, "Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way before you.

   2.  The voice of one crying in the wilderness, 'Make ready the way of the Lord! Make his paths straight!'"

   3.  John came baptizing in the wilderness and preaching the baptism of repentance for forgiveness of sins.

   4.  John was clothed with camel's hair and a leather belt around his waist. He ate locusts and wild honey.

   5.  I baptized you in water, but he will baptize you in the Holy Spirit."

   6.  It happened in those days, that Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee, and was baptized by John in the Jordan.

   7.  Immediately coming up from the water, he saw the heavens parting, and the Spirit descending on him like a dove.

   8.  A voice came out of the sky, "You are my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased."

   9.  Immediately the Spirit drove him out into the wilderness.

  10.  He was there in the wilderness forty days tempted by Satan. He was with the wild animals; and the angels were serving him.

  11.  Now after John was taken into custody, Jesus came into Galilee, preaching the Good News of the Kingdom of God,

  12.  Jesus said to them, "Come after me, and I will make you into fishers for men."

  13.  Immediately they left their nets, and followed him.

  14.  Immediately he called them, and they left their father, Zebedee, in the boat with the hired servants, and went after him.

  15.  They went into Capernaum, and immediately on the Sabbath day he entered into the synagogue and taught.

  16.  They were astonished at his teaching, for he taught them as having authority, and not as the scribes.

  17.  Immediately there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit, and he cried out,

  18.  Jesus rebuked him, saying, "Be quiet, and come out of him!"

  19.  The unclean spirit, convulsing him and crying with a loud voice, came out of him.

  20.  The report of him went out immediately everywhere into all the region of Galilee and its surrounding area.

  21.  Immediately, when they had come out of the synagogue, they came into the house of Simon and Andrew, with James and John.

  22.  Now Simon's wife's mother lay sick with a fever, and immediately they told him about her.

  23.  He came and took her by the hand, and raised her up. The fever left her, and she served them.

  24.  At evening, when the sun had set, they brought to him all who were sick, and those who were possessed by demons.

  25.  All the city was gathered together at the door.

  26.  He healed many who were sick with various diseases, and cast out many demons. He didn't allow the demons to speak, because they knew him.

  27.  Early in the morning, while it was still dark, he rose up and went out, and departed into a deserted place, and prayed there.

  28.  Simon and those who were with him followed after him;

  29.  He said to them, "Let's go elsewhere into the next towns, that I may preach there also, because I came out for this reason."

  30.  He went into their synagogues throughout all Galilee, preaching and casting out demons.

  31.  A leper came to him, begging him, kneeling down to him, and saying to him, "If you want to, you can make me clean."

  32.  Being moved with compassion, he stretched out his hand, and touched him, and said to him, "I want to. Be made clean."

  33.  When he had said this, immediately the leprosy departed from him, and he was made clean.

  34.  He strictly warned him, and immediately sent him out,

  35.  When he entered again into Capernaum after some days, it was heard that he was in the house.

  36.  Immediately many were gathered together, so that there was no more room, not even around the door; and he spoke the word to them.

  37.  Four people came, carrying a paralytic to him.

  38.  Jesus, seeing their faith, said to the paralytic, "Son, your sins are forgiven you."

  39.  But there were some of the scribes sitting there, and reasoning in their hearts,

  40.  "Why does this man speak blasphemies like that? Who can forgive sins but God alone?"

  41.  Immediately Jesus, perceiving in his spirit that they so reasoned within themselves, said to them, "Why do you reason these things in your hearts?

  42.  Which is easier, to tell the paralytic, 'Your sins are forgiven;' or to say, 'Arise, and take up your bed, and walk?'

  43.  But that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins"—he said to the paralytic—

  44.  "I tell you, arise, take up your mat, and go to your house."

  45.  He went out again by the seaside. All the multitude came to him, and he taught them.

  46.  But the days will come when the bridegroom will be taken away from them, and then will they fast in that day.

  47.  The Pharisees said to him, "Behold, why do they do that which is not lawful on the Sabbath day?"

  48.  He said to them, "Did you never read what David did, when he had need, and was hungry—he, and those who were with him?

  49.  He said to them, "The Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath.

  50.  Therefore the Son of Man is lord even of the Sabbath."

  51.  He entered again into the synagogue, and there was a man there who had his hand withered.

  52.  They watched him, whether he would heal him on the Sabbath day, that they might accuse him.

  53.  He said to the man who had his hand withered, "Stand up."

  54.  The Pharisees went out, and immediately conspired with the Herodians against him, how they might destroy him.

  55.  Jesus withdrew to the sea with his disciples, and a great multitude followed him from Galilee, from Judea,

  56.  He spoke to his disciples that a little boat should stay near him because of the crowd, so that they wouldn't press on him.

  57.  For he had healed many, so that as many as had diseases pressed on him that they might touch him.

  58.  The unclean spirits, whenever they saw him, fell down before him, and cried, "You are the Son of God!"

  59.  He sternly warned them that they should not make him known.

  60.  He went up into the mountain, and called to himself those whom he wanted, and they went to him.

  61.  He appointed twelve, that they might be with him, and that he might send them out to preach,

  62.  Simon, to whom he gave the name Peter;

  63.  James the son of Zebedee; John, the brother of James, and he surnamed them Boanerges, which means, Sons of Thunder;

  64.  The multitude came together again, so that they could not so much as eat bread.

  65.  When his friends heard it, they went out to seize him: for they said, "He is insane."

  66.  The scribes who came down from Jerusalem said, "He has Beelzebul," and, "By the prince of the demons he casts out the demons."

  67.  He summoned them, and said to them in parables, "How can Satan cast out Satan?

  68.  If a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand.

  69.  If a house is divided against itself, that house cannot stand.

  70.  If Satan has risen up against himself, and is divided, he can't stand, but has an end.

  71.  Most certainly I tell you, all sins of the descendants of man will be forgiven, including their blasphemies with which they may blaspheme;

  72.  —because they said, "He has an unclean spirit."

  73.  His mother and his brothers came, and standing outside, they sent to him, calling him.

  74.  A multitude was sitting around him, and they told him, "Behold, your mother, your brothers, and your sisters are outside looking for you."

  75.  He answered them, "Who are my mother and my brothers?"

  76.  Looking around at those who sat around him, he said, "Behold, my mother and my brothers!

  77.  For whoever does the will of God, the same is my brother, and my sister, and mother."

  78.  He taught them many things in parables, and told them in his teaching,

  79.  "Listen! Behold, the farmer went out to sow,

  80.  Others fell on the rocky ground, where it had little soil, and immediately it sprang up, because it had no depth of soil.

  81.  When the sun had risen, it was scorched; and because it had no root, it withered away.

  82.  Others fell among the thorns, and the thorns grew up, and choked it, and it yielded no fruit.

  83.  He said, "Whoever has ears to hear, let him hear."

  84.  When he was alone, those who were around him with the twelve asked him about the parables.

  85.  He said to them, "Don't you understand this parable? How will you understand all of the parables?

  86.  The farmer sows the word.

  87.  They have no root in themselves, but are short-lived. When oppression or persecution arises because of the word, immediately they stumble.

  88.  Others are those who are sown among the thorns. These are those who have heard the word,

  89.  He said to them, "Is the lamp brought to be put under a basket or under a bed? Isn't it put on a stand?

  90.  For there is nothing hidden, except that it should be made known; neither was anything made secret, but that it should come to light.

  91.  If any man has ears to hear, let him hear."

  92.  For whoever has, to him will more be given, and he who doesn't have, even that which he has will be taken away from him."

  93.  He said, "The Kingdom of God is as if a man should cast seed on the earth,

  94.  For the earth bears fruit: first the blade, then the ear, then the full grain in the ear.

  95.  But when the fruit is ripe, immediately he puts forth the sickle, because the harvest has come."

  96.  He said, "How will we liken the Kingdom of God? Or with what parable will we illustrate it?

  97.  With many such parables he spoke the word to them, as they were able to hear it.

  98.  Without a parable he didn't speak to them; but privately to his own disciples he explained everything.

  99.  On that day, when evening had come, he said to them, "Let's go over to the other side."

 100.  Leaving the multitude, they took him with them, even as he was, in the boat. Other small boats were also with him.

 101.  A big wind storm arose, and the waves beat into the boat, so much that the boat was already filled.

 102.  He awoke, and rebuked the wind, and said to the sea, "Peace! Be still!" The wind ceased, and there was a great calm.

 103.  He said to them, "Why are you so afraid? How is it that you have no faith?"

 104.  They were greatly afraid, and said to one another, "Who then is this, that even the wind and the sea obey him?"

 105.  They came to the other side of the sea, into the country of the Gadarenes.

 106.  When he had come out of the boat, immediately a man with an unclean spirit met him out of the tombs.

 107.  He lived in the tombs. Nobody could bind him any more, not even with chains,

 108.  Always, night and day, in the tombs and in the mountains, he was crying out, and cutting himself with stones.

 109.  When he saw Jesus from afar, he ran and bowed down to him,

 110.  For he said to him, "Come out of the man, you unclean spirit!"

 111.  He asked him, "What is your name?" He said to him, "My name is Legion, for we are many."

 112.  He begged him much that he would not send them away out of the country.

 113.  Now on the mountainside there was a great herd of pigs feeding.

 114.  All the demons begged him, saying, "Send us into the pigs, that we may enter into them."

 115.  Those who saw it declared to them how it happened to him who was possessed by demons, and about the pigs.

 116.  They began to beg him to depart from their region.

 117.  As he was entering into the boat, he who had been possessed by demons begged him that he might be with him.

 118.  He went his way, and began to proclaim in Decapolis how Jesus had done great things for him, and everyone marveled.

 119.  Behold, one of the rulers of the synagogue, Jairus by name, came; and seeing him, he fell at his feet,

 120.  He went with him, and a great multitude followed him, and they pressed upon him on all sides.

 121.  A certain woman, who had an issue of blood for twelve years,

 122.  For she said, "If I just touch his clothes, I will be made well."

 123.  Immediately the flow of her blood was dried up, and she felt in her body that she was healed of her affliction.

 124.  Immediately Jesus, perceiving in himself that the power had gone out from him, turned around in the crowd, and asked, "Who touched my clothes?"

 125.  His disciples said to him, "You see the multitude pressing against you, and you say, 'Who touched me?'"

 126.  He looked around to see her who had done this thing.

 127.  But the woman, fearing and trembling, knowing what had been done to her, came and fell down before him, and told him all the truth.

 128.  He said to her, "Daughter, your faith has made you well. Go in peace, and be cured of your disease."

 129.  While he was still speaking, people came from the synagogue ruler's house saying, "Your daughter is dead. Why bother the Teacher any more?"

 130.  But Jesus, when he heard the message spoken, immediately said to the ruler of the synagogue, "Don't be afraid, only believe."

 131.  He allowed no one to follow him, except Peter, James, and John the brother of James.

 132.  He came to the synagogue ruler's house, and he saw an uproar, weeping, and great wailing.

 133.  When he had entered in, he said to them, "Why do you make an uproar and weep? The child is not dead, but is asleep."

 134.  Taking the child by the hand, he said to her, "Talitha cumi!" which means, being interpreted, "Girl, I tell you, get up!"

 135.  Immediately the girl rose up and walked, for she was twelve years old. They were amazed with great amazement.

 136.  He strictly ordered them that no one should know this, and commanded that something should be given to her to eat.

 137.  He went out from there. He came into his own country, and his disciples followed him.

 138.  Jesus said to them, "A prophet is not without honor, except in his own country, and among his own relatives, and in his own house."

 139.  He could do no mighty work there, except that he laid his hands on a few sick people, and healed them.

 140.  He marveled because of their unbelief. He went around the villages teaching.

 141.  He called to himself the twelve, and began to send them out two by two; and he gave them authority over the unclean spirits.

 142.  He commanded them that they should take nothing for their journey, except a staff only: no bread, no wallet, no money in their purse,

 143.  He said to them, "Wherever you enter into a house, stay there until you depart from there.

 144.  They went out and preached that people should repent.

 145.  They cast out many demons, and anointed many with oil who were sick, and healed them.

 146.  But others said, "He is Elijah." Others said, "He is a prophet, or like one of the prophets."

 147.  But Herod, when he heard this, said, "This is John, whom I beheaded. He has risen from the dead."

 148.  For John said to Herod, "It is not lawful for you to have your brother's wife."

 149.  Herodias set herself against him, and desired to kill him, but she couldn't,

 150.  Then a convenient day came, that Herod on his birthday made a supper for his nobles, the high officers, and the chief men of Galilee.

 151.  He swore to her, "Whatever you shall ask of me, I will give you, up to half of my kingdom."

 152.  She went out, and said to her mother, "What shall I ask?" She said, "The head of John the Baptizer."

 153.  The king was exceedingly sorry, but for the sake of his oaths, and of his dinner guests, he didn't wish to refuse her.

 154.  Immediately the king sent out a soldier of his guard, and commanded to bring John's head, and he went and beheaded him in the prison,

 155.  When his disciples heard this, they came and took up his corpse, and laid it in a tomb.

 156.  The apostles gathered themselves together to Jesus, and they told him all things, whatever they had done, and whatever they had taught.

 157.  They went away in the boat to a deserted place by themselves.

 158.  When it was late in the day, his disciples came to him, and said, "This place is deserted, and it is late in the day.

 159.  Send them away, that they may go into the surrounding country and villages, and buy themselves bread, for they have nothing to eat."

 160.  He said to them, "How many loaves do you have? Go see." When they knew, they said, "Five, and two fish."

 161.  He commanded them that everyone should sit down in groups on the green grass.

 162.  They sat down in ranks, by hundreds and by fifties.

 163.  They all ate, and were filled.

 164.  They took up twelve baskets full of broken pieces and also of the fish.

 165.  Those who ate the loaves were five thousand men.

 166.  After he had taken leave of them, he went up the mountain to pray.

 167.  When evening had come, the boat was in the midst of the sea, and he was alone on the land.

 168.  He got into the boat with them; and the wind ceased, and they were very amazed among themselves, and marveled;

 169.  When they had crossed over, they came to land at Gennesaret, and moored to the shore.

 170.  When they had come out of the boat, immediately the people recognized him,

 171.  Then the Pharisees, and some of the scribes gathered together to him, having come from Jerusalem.

 172.  Now when they saw some of his disciples eating bread with defiled, that is, unwashed, hands, they found fault.

 173.  (For the Pharisees, and all the Jews, don't eat unless they wash their hands and forearms, holding to the tradition of the elders.

 174.  But in vain do they worship me, teaching as doctrines the commandments of men.'

 175.  He said to them, "Full well do you reject the commandment of God, that you may keep your tradition.

 176.  For Moses said, 'Honor your father and your mother;' and, 'He who speaks evil of father or mother, let him be put to death.'

 177.  He called all the multitude to himself, and said to them, "Hear me, all of you, and understand.

 178.  If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear!"

 179.  When he had entered into a house away from the multitude, his disciples asked him about the parable.

 180.  He said to them, "Are you thus without understanding also? Don't you perceive that whatever goes into the man from outside can't defile him,

 181.  He said, "That which proceeds out of the man, that defiles the man.

 182.  For from within, out of the hearts of men, proceed evil thoughts, adulteries, sexual sins, murders, thefts,

 183.  All these evil things come from within, and defile the man."

 184.  For a woman, whose little daughter had an unclean spirit, having heard of him, came and fell down at his feet.

 185.  Now the woman was a Greek, a Syrophoenician by race. She begged him that he would cast the demon out of her daughter.

 186.  But she answered him, "Yes, Lord. Yet even the dogs under the table eat the children's crumbs."

 187.  He said to her, "For this saying, go your way. The demon has gone out of your daughter."

 188.  She went away to her house, and found the child having been laid on the bed, with the demon gone out.

 189.  Again he departed from the borders of Tyre and Sidon, and came to the sea of Galilee, through the midst of the region of Decapolis.

 190.  They brought to him one who was deaf and had an impediment in his speech. They begged him to lay his hand on him.

 191.  He took him aside from the multitude, privately, and put his fingers into his ears, and he spat, and touched his tongue.

 192.  Looking up to heaven, he sighed, and said to him, "Ephphatha!" that is, "Be opened!"

 193.  Immediately his ears were opened, and the impediment of his tongue was released, and he spoke clearly.

 194.  He commanded them that they should tell no one, but the more he commanded them, so much the more widely they proclaimed it.

 195.  They were astonished beyond measure, saying, "He has done all things well. He makes even the deaf hear, and the mute speak!"

 196.  "I have compassion on the multitude, because they have stayed with me now three days, and have nothing to eat.

 197.  If I send them away fasting to their home, they will faint on the way, for some of them have come a long way."

 198.  His disciples answered him, "From where could one satisfy these people with bread here in a deserted place?"

 199.  He asked them, "How many loaves do you have?" They said, "Seven."

 200.  They had a few small fish. Having blessed them, he said to serve these also.

 201.  They ate, and were filled. They took up seven baskets of broken pieces that were left over.

 202.  Those who had eaten were about four thousand. Then he sent them away.

 203.  Immediately he entered into the boat with his disciples, and came into the region of Dalmanutha.

 204.  The Pharisees came out and began to question him, seeking from him a sign from heaven, and testing him.

 205.  He left them, and again entering into the boat, departed to the other side.

 206.  They forgot to take bread; and they didn't have more than one loaf in the boat with them.

 207.  He warned them, saying, "Take heed: beware of the yeast of the Pharisees and the yeast of Herod."

 208.  They reasoned with one another, saying, "It's because we have no bread."

 209.  Having eyes, don't you see? Having ears, don't you hear? Don't you remember?

 210.  When I broke the five loaves among the five thousand, how many baskets full of broken pieces did you take up?" They told him, "Twelve."

 211.  "When the seven loaves fed the four thousand, how many baskets full of broken pieces did you take up?" They told him, "Seven."

 212.  He asked them, "Don't you understand, yet?"

 213.  He came to Bethsaida. They brought a blind man to him, and begged him to touch him.

 214.  He looked up, and said, "I see men; for I see them like trees walking."

 215.  Then again he laid his hands on his eyes. He looked intently, and was restored, and saw everyone clearly.

 216.  He sent him away to his house, saying, "Don't enter into the village, nor tell anyone in the village."

 217.  They told him, "John the Baptizer, and others say Elijah, but others: one of the prophets."

 218.  He said to them, "But who do you say that I am?" Peter answered, "You are the Christ."

 219.  He commanded them that they should tell no one about him.

 220.  He spoke to them openly. Peter took him, and began to rebuke him.

 221.  For what does it profit a man, to gain the whole world, and forfeit his life?

 222.  For what will a man give in exchange for his life?

 223.  His clothing became glistening, exceedingly white, like snow, such as no launderer on earth can whiten them.

 224.  Elijah and Moses appeared to them, and they were talking with Jesus.

 225.  For he didn't know what to say, for they were very afraid.

 226.  A cloud came, overshadowing them, and a voice came out of the cloud, "This is my beloved Son. Listen to him."

