CHOIR reading sheet - session 17
130 lines, about 17 minutes

Same mic, same room, same gain, same distance as every
other session. One continuous recording. Pause about one
second between lines. If you fluff a line, pause and say
the whole line again - do not stop recording.

Text: World English Bible (public domain).
==============================================================

   1.  But the wise answered, saying, 'What if there isn't enough for us and you? You go rather to those who sell, and buy for yourselves.'

   2.  Afterward the other virgins also came, saying, 'Lord, Lord, open to us.'

   3.  But he answered, 'Most certainly I tell you, I don't know you.'

   4.  Watch therefore, for you don't know the day nor the hour in which the Son of Man is coming.

   5.  "For it is like a man, going into another country, who called his own servants, and entrusted his goods to them.

   6.  To one he gave five talents, to another two, to another one; to each according to his own ability. Then he went on his journey.

   7.  Immediately he who received the five talents went and traded with them, and made another five talents.

   8.  In the same way, he also who got the two gained another two.

   9.  But he who received the one went away and dug in the earth, and hid his lord's money.

  10.  "Now after a long time the lord of those servants came, and reconciled accounts with them.

  11.  I was afraid, and went away and hid your talent in the earth. Behold, you have what is yours.'

  12.  "But his lord answered him, 'You wicked and slothful servant. You knew that I reap where I didn't sow, and gather where I didn't scatter.

  13.  You ought therefore to have deposited my money with the bankers, and at my coming I should have received back my own with interest.

  14.  Take away therefore the talent from him, and give it to him who has the ten talents.

  15.  Throw out the unprofitable servant into the outer darkness, where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.'

  16.  Before him all the nations will be gathered, and he will separate them one from another, as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats.

  17.  He will set the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on the left.

  18.  I was naked, and you clothed me. I was sick, and you visited me. I was in prison, and you came to me.'

  19.  "Then the righteous will answer him, saying, 'Lord, when did we see you hungry, and feed you; or thirsty, and give you a drink?

  20.  When did we see you as a stranger, and take you in; or naked, and clothe you?

  21.  When did we see you sick, or in prison, and come to you?'

  22.  I was a stranger, and you didn't take me in; naked, and you didn't clothe me; sick, and in prison, and you didn't visit me.'

  23.  These will go away into eternal punishment, but the righteous into eternal life."

  24.  It happened, when Jesus had finished all these words, that he said to his disciples,

  25.  "You know that after two days the Passover is coming, and the Son of Man will be delivered up to be crucified."

  26.  They took counsel together that they might take Jesus by deceit, and kill him.

  27.  But they said, "Not during the feast, lest a riot occur among the people."

  28.  Now when Jesus was in Bethany, in the house of Simon the leper,

  29.  But when his disciples saw this, they were indignant, saying, "Why this waste?

  30.  For this ointment might have been sold for much, and given to the poor."

  31.  However, knowing this, Jesus said to them, "Why do you trouble the woman? Because she has done a good work for me.

  32.  For you always have the poor with you; but you don't always have me.

  33.  For in pouring this ointment on my body, she did it to prepare me for burial.

  34.  Then one of the twelve, who was called Judas Iscariot, went to the chief priests,

  35.  From that time he sought opportunity to betray him.

  36.  The disciples did as Jesus commanded them, and they prepared the Passover.

  37.  Now when evening had come, he was reclining at the table with the twelve disciples.

  38.  As they were eating, he said, "Most certainly I tell you that one of you will betray me."

  39.  They were exceedingly sorrowful, and each began to ask him, "It isn't me, is it, Lord?"

  40.  He answered, "He who dipped his hand with me in the dish, the same will betray me.

  41.  Judas, who betrayed him, answered, "It isn't me, is it, Rabbi?" He said to him, "You said it."

  42.  He took the cup, gave thanks, and gave to them, saying, "All of you drink it,

  43.  But after I am raised up, I will go before you into Galilee."

  44.  But Peter answered him, "Even if all will be made to stumble because of you, I will never be made to stumble."

  45.  Jesus said to him, "Most certainly I tell you that tonight, before the rooster crows, you will deny me three times."

  46.  Peter said to him, "Even if I must die with you, I will not deny you." All of the disciples also said likewise.

  47.  Then Jesus came with them to a place called Gethsemane, and said to his disciples, "Sit here, while I go there and pray."

  48.  He took with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, and began to be sorrowful and severely troubled.

  49.  Then he said to them, "My soul is exceedingly sorrowful, even to death. Stay here, and watch with me."

  50.  He came to the disciples, and found them sleeping, and said to Peter, "What, couldn't you watch with me for one hour?

  51.  Watch and pray, that you don't enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak."

  52.  He came again and found them sleeping, for their eyes were heavy.

  53.  He left them again, went away, and prayed a third time, saying the same words.

  54.  Arise, let's be going. Behold, he who betrays me is at hand."

  55.  Now he who betrayed him gave them a sign, saying, "Whoever I kiss, he is the one. Seize him."

  56.  Immediately he came to Jesus, and said, "Hail, Rabbi!" and kissed him.

  57.  Jesus said to him, "Friend, why are you here?" Then they came and laid hands on Jesus, and took him.

  58.  Then Jesus said to him, "Put your sword back into its place, for all those who take the sword will die by the sword.

  59.  Or do you think that I couldn't ask my Father, and he would even now send me more than twelve legions of angels?

  60.  How then would the Scriptures be fulfilled that it must be so?"

  61.  But all this has happened, that the Scriptures of the prophets might be fulfilled." Then all the disciples left him, and fled.

  62.  Those who had taken Jesus led him away to Caiaphas the high priest, where the scribes and the elders were gathered together.

  63.  Now the chief priests, the elders, and the whole council sought false testimony against Jesus, that they might put him to death;

  64.  The high priest stood up, and said to him, "Have you no answer? What is this that these testify against you?"

  65.  What do you think?" They answered, "He is worthy of death!"

  66.  Then they spit in his face and beat him with their fists, and some slapped him,

  67.  Now Peter was sitting outside in the court, and a maid came to him, saying, "You were also with Jesus, the Galilean!"

  68.  But he denied it before them all, saying, "I don't know what you are talking about."

  69.  Again he denied it with an oath, "I don't know the man."

  70.  Then he began to curse and to swear, "I don't know the man!" Immediately the rooster crowed.

  71.  Now when morning had come, all the chief priests and the elders of the people took counsel against Jesus to put him to death:

  72.  He threw down the pieces of silver in the sanctuary, and departed. He went away and hanged himself.

  73.  They took counsel, and bought the potter's field with them, to bury strangers in.

  74.  Therefore that field was called "The Field of Blood" to this day.

  75.  When he was accused by the chief priests and elders, he answered nothing.

  76.  Then Pilate said to him, "Don't you hear how many things they testify against you?"

  77.  He gave him no answer, not even one word, so that the governor marveled greatly.

  78.  Now at the feast the governor was accustomed to release to the multitude one prisoner, whom they desired.

  79.  They had then a notable prisoner, called Barabbas.

  80.  For he knew that because of envy they had delivered him up.

  81.  Now the chief priests and the elders persuaded the multitudes to ask for Barabbas, and destroy Jesus.

  82.  But the governor answered them, "Which of the two do you want me to release to you?" They said, "Barabbas!"

  83.  Pilate said to them, "What then shall I do to Jesus, who is called Christ?" They all said to him, "Let him be crucified!"

  84.  But the governor said, "Why? What evil has he done?" But they cried out exceedingly, saying, "Let him be crucified!"

  85.  All the people answered, "May his blood be on us, and on our children!"

  86.  Then he released to them Barabbas, but Jesus he flogged and delivered to be crucified.

  87.  Then the governor's soldiers took Jesus into the Praetorium, and gathered the whole garrison together against him.

  88.  They stripped him, and put a scarlet robe on him.

  89.  They spat on him, and took the reed and struck him on the head.

  90.  When they had mocked him, they took the robe off of him, and put his clothes on him, and led him away to crucify him.

  91.  They came to a place called "Golgotha," that is to say, "The place of a skull."

  92.  They gave him sour wine to drink mixed with gall. When he had tasted it, he would not drink.

  93.  When they had crucified him, they divided his clothing among them, casting lots,

  94.  They set up over his head the accusation against him written, "THIS IS JESUS, THE KING OF THE JEWS."

  95.  Then there were two robbers crucified with him, one on his right hand and one on the left.

  96.  Those who passed by blasphemed him, wagging their heads,

  97.  Likewise the chief priests also mocking, with the scribes, the Pharisees, and the elders, said,

  98.  He trusts in God. Let God deliver him now, if he wants him; for he said, 'I am the Son of God.'"

  99.  The robbers also who were crucified with him cast on him the same reproach.

 100.  Now from the sixth hour there was darkness over all the land until the ninth hour.

 101.  Some of them who stood there, when they heard it, said, "This man is calling Elijah."

 102.  Immediately one of them ran, and took a sponge, and filled it with vinegar, and put it on a reed, and gave him a drink.

 103.  The rest said, "Let him be. Let's see whether Elijah comes to save him."

 104.  Jesus cried again with a loud voice, and yielded up his spirit.

 105.  Behold, the veil of the temple was torn in two from the top to the bottom. The earth quaked and the rocks were split.

 106.  The tombs were opened, and many bodies of the saints who had fallen asleep were raised;

 107.  Many women were there watching from afar, who had followed Jesus from Galilee, serving him.

 108.  Among them were Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James and Joses, and the mother of the sons of Zebedee.

 109.  When evening had come, a rich man from Arimathaea, named Joseph, who himself was also Jesus' disciple came.

 110.  This man went to Pilate, and asked for Jesus' body. Then Pilate commanded the body to be given up.

 111.  Joseph took the body, and wrapped it in a clean linen cloth,

 112.  Mary Magdalene was there, and the other Mary, sitting opposite the tomb.

 113.  Now on the next day, which was the day after the Preparation Day, the chief priests and the Pharisees were gathered together to Pilate,

 114.  Pilate said to them, "You have a guard. Go, make it as secure as you can."

 115.  So they went with the guard and made the tomb secure, sealing the stone.

 116.  His appearance was like lightning, and his clothing white as snow.

 117.  For fear of him, the guards shook, and became like dead men.

 118.  The angel answered the women, "Don't be afraid, for I know that you seek Jesus, who has been crucified.

 119.  He is not here, for he has risen, just like he said. Come, see the place where the Lord was lying.

 120.  They departed quickly from the tomb with fear and great joy, and ran to bring his disciples word.

 121.  As they went to tell his disciples, behold, Jesus met them, saying, "Rejoice!" They came and took hold of his feet, and worshiped him.

 122.  Then Jesus said to them, "Don't be afraid. Go tell my brothers that they should go into Galilee, and there they will see me."

 123.  Now while they were going, behold, some of the guards came into the city, and told the chief priests all the things that had happened.

 124.  When they were assembled with the elders, and had taken counsel, they gave a large amount of silver to the soldiers,

 125.  If this comes to the governor's ears, we will persuade him and make you free of worry."

 126.  So they took the money and did as they were told. This saying was spread abroad among the Jews, and continues until this day.

 127.  But the eleven disciples went into Galilee, to the mountain where Jesus had sent them.

 128.  When they saw him, they bowed down to him, but some doubted.

 129.  Jesus came to them and spoke to them, saying, "All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth.

 130.  Go, and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit,

