CHOIR reading sheet - session 5
223 lines, about 30 minutes

Same mic, same room, same gain, same distance as every
other session. One continuous recording. Pause about one
second between lines. If you fluff a line, pause and say
the whole line again - do not stop recording.

Text: World English Bible (public domain).
==============================================================

   1.  Now no man at the table knew why he said this to him.

   2.  Therefore, having received that morsel, he went out immediately. It was night.

   3.  When he had gone out, Jesus said, "Now the Son of Man has been glorified, and God has been glorified in him.

   4.  If God has been glorified in him, God will also glorify him in himself, and he will glorify him immediately.

   5.  A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another, just like I have loved you; that you also love one another.

   6.  By this everyone will know that you are my disciples, if you have love for one another."

   7.  Simon Peter said to him, "Lord, where are you going?" Jesus answered, "Where I am going, you can't follow now, but you will follow afterwards."

   8.  Peter said to him, "Lord, why can't I follow you now? I will lay down my life for you."

   9.  "Don't let your heart be troubled. Believe in God. Believe also in me.

  10.  In my Father's house are many homes. If it weren't so, I would have told you. I am going to prepare a place for you.

  11.  Where I go, you know, and you know the way."

  12.  Thomas said to him, "Lord, we don't know where you are going. How can we know the way?"

  13.  Jesus said to him, "I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father, except through me.

  14.  If you had known me, you would have known my Father also. From now on, you know him, and have seen him."

  15.  Philip said to him, "Lord, show us the Father, and that will be enough for us."

  16.  Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father in me; or else believe me for the very works' sake.

  17.  Whatever you will ask in my name, that will I do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son.

  18.  If you will ask anything in my name, I will do it.

  19.  If you love me, keep my commandments.

  20.  I will pray to the Father, and he will give you another Counselor, that he may be with you forever,—

  21.  I will not leave you orphans. I will come to you.

  22.  Yet a little while, and the world will see me no more; but you will see me. Because I live, you will live also.

  23.  In that day you will know that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you.

  24.  Judas (not Iscariot) said to him, "Lord, what has happened that you are about to reveal yourself to us, and not to the world?"

  25.  He who doesn't love me doesn't keep my words. The word which you hear isn't mine, but the Father's who sent me.

  26.  I have said these things to you, while still living with you.

  27.  Now I have told you before it happens so that, when it happens, you may believe.

  28.  I will no more speak much with you, for the prince of the world comes, and he has nothing in me.

  29.  "I am the true vine, and my Father is the farmer.

  30.  Every branch in me that doesn't bear fruit, he takes away. Every branch that bears fruit, he prunes, that it may bear more fruit.

  31.  You are already pruned clean because of the word which I have spoken to you.

  32.  If you remain in me, and my words remain in you, you will ask whatever you desire, and it will be done for you.

  33.  "In this is my Father glorified, that you bear much fruit; and so you will be my disciples.

  34.  Even as the Father has loved me, I also have loved you. Remain in my love.

  35.  If you keep my commandments, you will remain in my love; even as I have kept my Father's commandments, and remain in his love.

  36.  I have spoken these things to you, that my joy may remain in you, and that your joy may be made full.

  37.  "This is my commandment, that you love one another, even as I have loved you.

  38.  Greater love has no one than this, that someone lay down his life for his friends.

  39.  You are my friends, if you do whatever I command you.

  40.  "I command these things to you, that you may love one another.

  41.  If the world hates you, you know that it has hated me before it hated you.

  42.  But all these things will they do to you for my name's sake, because they don't know him who sent me.

  43.  If I had not come and spoken to them, they would not have had sin; but now they have no excuse for their sin.

  44.  He who hates me, hates my Father also.

  45.  But this happened so that the word may be fulfilled which was written in their law, 'They hated me without a cause.'

  46.  You will also testify, because you have been with me from the beginning.

  47.  "These things have I spoken to you, so that you wouldn't be caused to stumble.

  48.  They will put you out of the synagogues. Yes, the time comes that whoever kills you will think that he offers service to God.

  49.  They will do these things because they have not known the Father, nor me.

  50.  But now I am going to him who sent me, and none of you asks me, 'Where are you going?'

  51.  But because I have told you these things, sorrow has filled your heart.

  52.  When he has come, he will convict the world about sin, about righteousness, and about judgment;

  53.  "I have yet many things to tell you, but you can't bear them now.

  54.  He will glorify me, for he will take from what is mine, and will declare it to you.

  55.  All things whatever the Father has are mine; therefore I said that he takes of mine, and will declare it to you.

  56.  A little while, and you will not see me. Again a little while, and you will see me."

  57.  They said therefore, "What is this that he says, 'A little while?' We don't know what he is saying."

  58.  Until now, you have asked nothing in my name. Ask, and you will receive, that your joy may be made full.

  59.  In that day you will ask in my name; and I don't say to you, that I will pray to the Father for you,

  60.  I came out from the Father, and have come into the world. Again, I leave the world, and go to the Father."

  61.  His disciples said to him, "Behold, now you speak plainly, and speak no figures of speech.

  62.  Jesus answered them, "Do you now believe?

  63.  This is eternal life, that they should know you, the only true God, and him whom you sent, Jesus Christ.

  64.  I glorified you on the earth. I have accomplished the work which you have given me to do.

  65.  Now, Father, glorify me with your own self with the glory which I had with you before the world existed.

  66.  Now they have known that all things whatever you have given me are from you,

  67.  I pray for them. I don't pray for the world, but for those whom you have given me, for they are yours.

  68.  All things that are mine are yours, and yours are mine, and I am glorified in them.

  69.  But now I come to you, and I say these things in the world, that they may have my joy made full in themselves.

  70.  I have given them your word. The world hated them, because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world.

  71.  I pray not that you would take them from the world, but that you would keep them from the evil one.

  72.  They are not of the world even as I am not of the world.

  73.  Sanctify them in your truth. Your word is truth.

  74.  As you sent me into the world, even so I have sent them into the world.

  75.  For their sakes I sanctify myself, that they themselves also may be sanctified in truth.

  76.  Not for these only do I pray, but for those also who believe in me through their word,

  77.  The glory which you have given me, I have given to them; that they may be one, even as we are one;

  78.  Righteous Father, the world hasn't known you, but I knew you; and these knew that you sent me.

  79.  Now Judas, who betrayed him, also knew the place, for Jesus often met there with his disciples.

  80.  Judas then, having taken a detachment of soldiers and officers from the chief priests and the Pharisees, came there with lanterns, torches, and weapons.

  81.  Jesus therefore, knowing all the things that were happening to him, went forth, and said to them, "Who are you looking for?"

  82.  They answered him, "Jesus of Nazareth." Jesus said to them, "I am he." Judas also, who betrayed him, was standing with them.

  83.  When therefore he said to them, "I am he," they went backward, and fell to the ground.

  84.  Again therefore he asked them, "Who are you looking for?" They said, "Jesus of Nazareth."

  85.  Jesus answered, "I told you that I am he. If therefore you seek me, let these go their way,"

  86.  Simon Peter therefore, having a sword, drew it, and struck the high priest's servant, and cut off his right ear. The servant's name was Malchus.

  87.  Jesus therefore said to Peter, "Put the sword into its sheath. The cup which the Father has given me, shall I not surely drink it?"

  88.  So the detachment, the commanding officer, and the officers of the Jews, seized Jesus and bound him,

  89.  Now it was Caiaphas who advised the Jews that it was expedient that one man should perish for the people.

  90.  Then the maid who kept the door said to Peter, "Are you also one of this man's disciples?" He said, "I am not."

  91.  The high priest therefore asked Jesus about his disciples, and about his teaching.

  92.  Why do you ask me? Ask those who have heard me what I said to them. Behold, these know the things which I said."

  93.  When he had said this, one of the officers standing by slapped Jesus with his hand, saying, "Do you answer the high priest like that?"

  94.  Jesus answered him, "If I have spoken evil, testify of the evil; but if well, why do you beat me?"

  95.  Annas sent him bound to Caiaphas, the high priest.

  96.  Peter therefore denied it again, and immediately the rooster crowed.

  97.  Pilate therefore went out to them, and said, "What accusation do you bring against this man?"

  98.  They answered him, "If this man weren't an evildoer, we wouldn't have delivered him up to you."

  99.  Pilate therefore entered again into the Praetorium, called Jesus, and said to him, "Are you the King of the Jews?"

 100.  Jesus answered him, "Do you say this by yourself, or did others tell you about me?"

 101.  Pilate answered, "I'm not a Jew, am I? Your own nation and the chief priests delivered you to me. What have you done?"

 102.  Then they all shouted again, saying, "Not this man, but Barabbas!" Now Barabbas was a robber.

 103.  So Pilate then took Jesus, and flogged him.

 104.  The soldiers twisted thorns into a crown, and put it on his head, and dressed him in a purple garment.

 105.  They kept saying, "Hail, King of the Jews!" and they kept slapping him.

 106.  Jesus therefore came out, wearing the crown of thorns and the purple garment. Pilate said to them, "Behold, the man!"

 107.  The Jews answered him, "We have a law, and by our law he ought to die, because he made himself the Son of God."

 108.  When therefore Pilate heard this saying, he was more afraid.

 109.  He entered into the Praetorium again, and said to Jesus, "Where are you from?" But Jesus gave him no answer.

 110.  Now it was the Preparation Day of the Passover, at about the sixth hour. He said to the Jews, "Behold, your King!"

 111.  So then he delivered him to them to be crucified. So they took Jesus and led him away.

 112.  He went out, bearing his cross, to the place called "The Place of a Skull," which is called in Hebrew, "Golgotha,"

 113.  Pilate wrote a title also, and put it on the cross. There was written, "JESUS OF NAZARETH, THE KING OF THE JEWS."

 114.  Pilate answered, "What I have written, I have written."

 115.  But there were standing by the cross of Jesus his mother, and his mother's sister, Mary the wife of Clopas, and Mary Magdalene.

 116.  Therefore when Jesus saw his mother, and the disciple whom he loved standing there, he said to his mother, "Woman, behold your son!"

 117.  Then he said to the disciple, "Behold, your mother!" From that hour, the disciple took her to his own home.

 118.  After this, Jesus, seeing that all things were now finished, that the Scripture might be fulfilled, said, "I am thirsty."

 119.  When Jesus therefore had received the vinegar, he said, "It is finished." He bowed his head, and gave up his spirit.

 120.  Therefore the soldiers came, and broke the legs of the first, and of the other who was crucified with him;

 121.  However one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear, and immediately blood and water came out.

 122.  He who has seen has testified, and his testimony is true. He knows that he tells the truth, that you may believe.

 123.  For these things happened, that the Scripture might be fulfilled, "A bone of him will not be broken."

 124.  Again another Scripture says, "They will look on him whom they pierced."

 125.  Nicodemus, who at first came to Jesus by night, also came bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloes, about a hundred Roman pounds.

 126.  So they took Jesus' body, and bound it in linen cloths with the spices, as the custom of the Jews is to bury.

 127.  Then because of the Jews' Preparation Day (for the tomb was near at hand) they laid Jesus there.

 128.  Therefore Peter and the other disciple went out, and they went toward the tomb.

 129.  They both ran together. The other disciple outran Peter, and came to the tomb first.

 130.  Stooping and looking in, he saw the linen cloths lying, yet he didn't enter in.

 131.  Then Simon Peter came, following him, and entered into the tomb. He saw the linen cloths lying,

 132.  So then the other disciple who came first to the tomb also entered in, and he saw and believed.

 133.  For as yet they didn't know the Scripture, that he must rise from the dead.

 134.  So the disciples went away again to their own homes.

 135.  But Mary was standing outside at the tomb weeping. So, as she wept, she stooped and looked into the tomb,

 136.  When she had said this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing, and didn't know that it was Jesus.

 137.  Jesus said to her, "Mary." She turned and said to him, "Rabboni!" which is to say, "Teacher!"

 138.  Mary Magdalene came and told the disciples that she had seen the Lord, and that he had said these things to her.

 139.  When he had said this, he showed them his hands and his side. The disciples therefore were glad when they saw the Lord.

 140.  Jesus therefore said to them again, "Peace be to you. As the Father has sent me, even so I send you."

 141.  When he had said this, he breathed on them, and said to them, "Receive the Holy Spirit!

 142.  If you forgive anyone's sins, they have been forgiven them. If you retain anyone's sins, they have been retained."

 143.  But Thomas, one of the twelve, called Didymus, wasn't with them when Jesus came.

 144.  Thomas answered him, "My Lord and my God!"

 145.  Jesus said to him, "Because you have seen me, you have believed. Blessed are those who have not seen, and have believed."

 146.  Therefore Jesus did many other signs in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book;

 147.  After these things, Jesus revealed himself again to the disciples at the sea of Tiberias. He revealed himself this way.

 148.  Simon Peter, Thomas called Didymus, Nathanael of Cana in Galilee, and the sons of Zebedee, and two others of his disciples were together.

 149.  But when day had already come, Jesus stood on the beach, yet the disciples didn't know that it was Jesus.

 150.  Jesus therefore said to them, "Children, have you anything to eat?" They answered him, "No."

 151.  So when they got out on the land, they saw a fire of coals there, and fish laid on it, and bread.

 152.  Jesus said to them, "Bring some of the fish which you have just caught."

 153.  Jesus said to them, "Come and eat breakfast." None of the disciples dared inquire of him, "Who are you?" knowing that it was the Lord.

 154.  Then Jesus came and took the bread, gave it to them, and the fish likewise.

 155.  This is now the third time that Jesus was revealed to his disciples, after he had risen from the dead.

 156.  Now he said this, signifying by what kind of death he would glorify God. When he had said this, he said to him, "Follow me."

 157.  Peter seeing him, said to Jesus, "Lord, what about this man?"

 158.  Jesus said to him, "If I desire that he stay until I come, what is that to you? You follow me."

 159.  This is the disciple who testifies about these things, and wrote these things. We know that his witness is true.

 160.  Since many have undertaken to set in order a narrative concerning those matters which have been fulfilled among us,

 161.  They were both righteous before God, walking blamelessly in all the commandments and ordinances of the Lord.

 162.  But they had no child, because Elizabeth was barren, and they both were well advanced in years.

 163.  Now it happened, while he executed the priest's office before God in the order of his division,

 164.  The whole multitude of the people were praying outside at the hour of incense.

 165.  An angel of the Lord appeared to him, standing on the right side of the altar of incense.

 166.  Zacharias was troubled when he saw him, and fear fell upon him.

 167.  You will have joy and gladness; and many will rejoice at his birth.

 168.  He will turn many of the children of Israel to the Lord, their God.

 169.  The people were waiting for Zacharias, and they marveled that he delayed in the temple.

 170.  It happened, when the days of his service were fulfilled, he departed to his house.

 171.  After these days Elizabeth, his wife, conceived, and she hid herself five months, saying,

 172.  "Thus has the Lord done to me in the days in which he looked at me, to take away my reproach among men."

 173.  Now in the sixth month, the angel Gabriel was sent from God to a city of Galilee, named Nazareth,

 174.  Having come in, the angel said to her, "Rejoice, you highly favored one! The Lord is with you. Blessed are you among women!"

 175.  But when she saw him, she was greatly troubled at the saying, and considered what kind of salutation this might be.

 176.  The angel said to her, "Don't be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God.

 177.  Behold, you will conceive in your womb, and bring forth a son, and will call his name 'Jesus.'

 178.  Mary said to the angel, "How can this be, seeing I am a virgin?"

 179.  Behold, Elizabeth, your relative, also has conceived a son in her old age; and this is the sixth month with her who was called barren.

 180.  For everything spoken by God is possible."

 181.  Mary said, "Behold, the handmaid of the Lord; be it to me according to your word." The angel departed from her.

 182.  Mary arose in those days and went into the hill country with haste, into a city of Judah,

 183.  It happened, when Elizabeth heard Mary's greeting, that the baby leaped in her womb, and Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit.

 184.  She called out with a loud voice, and said, "Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb!

 185.  Why am I so favored, that the mother of my Lord should come to me?

 186.  For behold, when the voice of your greeting came into my ears, the baby leaped in my womb for joy!

 187.  Blessed is she who believed, for there will be a fulfillment of the things which have been spoken to her from the Lord!"

 188.  Mary said, "My soul magnifies the Lord.

 189.  My spirit has rejoiced in God my Savior,

 190.  For he who is mighty has done great things for me. Holy is his name.

 191.  His mercy is for generations of generations on those who fear him.

 192.  He has shown strength with his arm. He has scattered the proud in the imagination of their hearts.

 193.  He has put down princes from their thrones. And has exalted the lowly.

 194.  He has filled the hungry with good things. He has sent the rich away empty.

 195.  He has given help to Israel, his servant, that he might remember mercy,

 196.  As he spoke to our fathers, to Abraham and his seed forever."

 197.  Mary stayed with her about three months, and then returned to her house.

 198.  Now the time that Elizabeth should give birth was fulfilled, and she brought forth a son.

 199.  Her neighbors and her relatives heard that the Lord had magnified his mercy towards her, and they rejoiced with her.

 200.  His mother answered, "Not so; but he will be called John."

 201.  They said to her, "There is no one among your relatives who is called by this name."

 202.  They made signs to his father, what he would have him called.

 203.  He asked for a writing tablet, and wrote, "His name is John." They all marveled.

 204.  His mouth was opened immediately, and his tongue freed, and he spoke, blessing God.

 205.  Fear came on all who lived around them, and all these sayings were talked about throughout all the hill country of Judea.

 206.  All who heard them laid them up in their heart, saying, "What then will this child be?" The hand of the Lord was with him.

 207.  His father, Zacharias, was filled with the Holy Spirit, and prophesied, saying,

 208.  "Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel, for he has visited and worked redemption for his people;

 209.  (as he spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets who have been from of old),

 210.  In holiness and righteousness before him all the days of our life.

 211.  The child was growing, and becoming strong in spirit, and was in the desert until the day of his public appearance to Israel.

 212.  Now it happened in those days, that a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be enrolled.

 213.  This was the first enrollment made when Quirinius was governor of Syria.

 214.  All went to enroll themselves, everyone to his own city.

 215.  It happened, while they were there, that the day had come that she should give birth.

 216.  There were shepherds in the same country staying in the field, and keeping watch by night over their flock.

 217.  Behold, an angel of the Lord stood by them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were terrified.

 218.  The angel said to them, "Don't be afraid, for behold, I bring you good news of great joy which will be to all the people.

 219.  For there is born to you, this day, in the city of David, a Savior, who is Christ the Lord.

 220.  This is the sign to you: you will find a baby wrapped in strips of cloth, lying in a feeding trough."

 221.  Suddenly, there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly army praising God, and saying,

 222.  "Glory to God in the highest, on earth peace, good will toward men."

 223.  They came with haste, and found both Mary and Joseph, and the baby was lying in the feeding trough.

