CHOIR reading sheet - session 8
238 lines, about 30 minutes

Same mic, same room, same gain, same distance as every
other session. One continuous recording. Pause about one
second between lines. If you fluff a line, pause and say
the whole line again - do not stop recording.

Text: World English Bible (public domain).
==============================================================

   1.  For he will be delivered up to the Gentiles, will be mocked, treated shamefully, and spit on.

   2.  They will scourge and kill him. On the third day, he will rise again."

   3.  They understood none of these things. This saying was hidden from them, and they didn't understand the things that were said.

   4.  It happened, as he came near Jericho, a certain blind man sat by the road, begging.

   5.  Hearing a multitude going by, he asked what this meant.

   6.  They told him that Jesus of Nazareth was passing by.

   7.  He cried out, "Jesus, you son of David, have mercy on me!"

   8.  Standing still, Jesus commanded him to be brought to him. When he had come near, he asked him,

   9.  "What do you want me to do?" He said, "Lord, that I may see again."

  10.  Jesus said to him, "Receive your sight. Your faith has healed you."

  11.  Immediately he received his sight, and followed him, glorifying God. All the people, when they saw it, praised God.

  12.  He entered and was passing through Jericho.

  13.  There was a man named Zacchaeus. He was a chief tax collector, and he was rich.

  14.  He was trying to see who Jesus was, and couldn't because of the crowd, because he was short.

  15.  He ran on ahead, and climbed up into a sycamore tree to see him, for he was to pass that way.

  16.  He hurried, came down, and received him joyfully.

  17.  When they saw it, they all murmured, saying, "He has gone in to lodge with a man who is a sinner."

  18.  Jesus said to him, "Today, salvation has come to this house, because he also is a son of Abraham.

  19.  For the Son of Man came to seek and to save that which was lost."

  20.  He said therefore, "A certain nobleman went into a far country to receive for himself a kingdom, and to return.

  21.  He called ten servants of his, and gave them ten mina coins, and told them, 'Conduct business until I come.'

  22.  But his citizens hated him, and sent an envoy after him, saying, 'We don't want this man to reign over us.'

  23.  The first came before him, saying, 'Lord, your mina has made ten more minas.'

  24.  "He said to him, 'Well done, you good servant! Because you were found faithful with very little, you shall have authority over ten cities.'

  25.  "The second came, saying, 'Your mina, Lord, has made five minas.'

  26.  "So he said to him, 'And you are to be over five cities.'

  27.  Another came, saying, 'Lord, behold, your mina, which I kept laid away in a handkerchief,

  28.  Then why didn't you deposit my money in the bank, and at my coming, I might have earned interest on it?'

  29.  He said to those who stood by, 'Take the mina away from him, and give it to him who has the ten minas.'

  30.  "They said to him, 'Lord, he has ten minas!'

  31.  But bring those enemies of mine who didn't want me to reign over them here, and kill them before me.'"

  32.  Having said these things, he went on ahead, going up to Jerusalem.

  33.  It happened, when he drew near to Bethsphage and Bethany, at the mountain that is called Olivet, he sent two of his disciples,

  34.  If anyone asks you, 'Why are you untying it?' say to him: 'The Lord needs it.'"

  35.  Those who were sent went away, and found things just as he had told them.

  36.  As they were untying the colt, its owners said to them, "Why are you untying the colt?"

  37.  They said, "The Lord needs it."

  38.  They brought it to Jesus. They threw their cloaks on the colt, and set Jesus on them.

  39.  As he went, they spread their cloaks in the way.

  40.  Some of the Pharisees from the multitude said to him, "Teacher, rebuke your disciples!"

  41.  He answered them, "I tell you that if these were silent, the stones would cry out."

  42.  When he drew near, he saw the city and wept over it,

  43.  For the days will come on you, when your enemies will throw up a barricade against you, surround you, hem you in on every side,

  44.  He entered into the temple, and began to drive out those who bought and sold in it,

  45.  He was teaching daily in the temple, but the chief priests and the scribes and the leading men among the people sought to destroy him.

  46.  They couldn't find what they might do, for all the people hung on to every word that he said.

  47.  They asked him, "Tell us: by what authority do you do these things? Or who is giving you this authority?"

  48.  He answered them, "I also will ask you one question. Tell me:

  49.  They reasoned with themselves, saying, "If we say, 'From heaven,' he will say, 'Why didn't you believe him?'

  50.  But if we say, 'From men,' all the people will stone us, for they are persuaded that John was a prophet."

  51.  They answered that they didn't know where it was from.

  52.  Jesus said to them, "Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things."

  53.  He sent yet another servant, and they also beat him, and treated him shamefully, and sent him away empty.

  54.  He sent yet a third, and they also wounded him, and threw him out.

  55.  "But when the farmers saw him, they reasoned among themselves, saying, 'This is the heir. Come, let's kill him, that the inheritance may be ours.'

  56.  They threw him out of the vineyard, and killed him. What therefore will the lord of the vineyard do to them?

  57.  He will come and destroy these farmers, and will give the vineyard to others." When they heard it, they said, "May it never be!"

  58.  Everyone who falls on that stone will be broken to pieces, but it will crush whomever it falls on to dust."

  59.  Is it lawful for us to pay taxes to Caesar, or not?"

  60.  But he perceived their craftiness, and said to them, "Why do you test me?

  61.  Show me a denarius. Whose image and inscription are on it?" They answered, "Caesar's."

  62.  He said to them, "Then give to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's."

  63.  They weren't able to trap him in his words before the people. They marveled at his answer, and were silent.

  64.  Some of the Sadducees came to him, those who deny that there is a resurrection.

  65.  There were therefore seven brothers. The first took a wife, and died childless.

  66.  The second took her as wife, and he died childless.

  67.  The third took her, and likewise the seven all left no children, and died.

  68.  Afterward the woman also died.

  69.  Therefore in the resurrection whose wife of them will she be? For the seven had her as a wife."

  70.  Jesus said to them, "The children of this age marry, and are given in marriage.

  71.  But those who are considered worthy to attain to that age and the resurrection from the dead, neither marry, nor are given in marriage.

  72.  For they can't die any more, for they are like the angels, and are children of God, being children of the resurrection.

  73.  Now he is not the God of the dead, but of the living, for all are alive to him."

  74.  Some of the scribes answered, "Teacher, you speak well."

  75.  They didn't dare to ask him any more questions.

  76.  He said to them, "Why do they say that the Christ is David's son?

  77.  David himself says in the book of Psalms, 'The Lord said to my Lord, "Sit at my right hand,

  78.  "David therefore calls him Lord, so how is he his son?"

  79.  In the hearing of all the people, he said to his disciples,

  80.  He looked up, and saw the rich people who were putting their gifts into the treasury.

  81.  He saw a certain poor widow casting in two small brass coins.

  82.  He said, "Truly I tell you, this poor widow put in more than all of them,

  83.  As some were talking about the temple and how it was decorated with beautiful stones and gifts, he said,

  84.  They asked him, "Teacher, so when will these things be? What is the sign that these things are about to happen?"

  85.  When you hear of wars and disturbances, don't be terrified, for these things must happen first, but the end won't come immediately."

  86.  Then he said to them, "Nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom.

  87.  There will be great earthquakes, famines, and plagues in various places. There will be terrors and great signs from heaven.

  88.  It will turn out as a testimony for you.

  89.  Settle it therefore in your hearts not to meditate beforehand how to answer,

  90.  You will be handed over even by parents, brothers, relatives, and friends. They will cause some of you to be put to death.

  91.  You will be hated by all men for my name's sake.

  92.  And not a hair of your head will perish.

  93.  "By your endurance you will win your lives.

  94.  "But when you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, then know that its desolation is at hand.

  95.  For these are days of vengeance, that all things which are written may be fulfilled.

  96.  Then they will see the Son of Man coming in a cloud with power and great glory.

  97.  But when these things begin to happen, look up, and lift up your heads, because your redemption is near."

  98.  He told them a parable. "See the fig tree, and all the trees.

  99.  When they are already budding, you see it and know by your own selves that the summer is already near.

 100.  Even so you also, when you see these things happening, know that the Kingdom of God is near.

 101.  Most certainly I tell you, this generation will not pass away until all things are accomplished.

 102.  Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will by no means pass away.

 103.  For it will come like a snare on all those who dwell on the surface of all the earth.

 104.  All the people came early in the morning to him in the temple to hear him.

 105.  Now the feast of unleavened bread, which is called the Passover, drew near.

 106.  The chief priests and the scribes sought how they might put him to death, for they feared the people.

 107.  Satan entered into Judas, who was surnamed Iscariot, who was numbered with the twelve.

 108.  He went away, and talked with the chief priests and captains about how he might deliver him to them.

 109.  They were glad, and agreed to give him money.

 110.  He consented, and sought an opportunity to deliver him to them in the absence of the multitude.

 111.  The day of unleavened bread came, on which the Passover must be sacrificed.

 112.  He sent Peter and John, saying, "Go and prepare the Passover for us, that we may eat."

 113.  They said to him, "Where do you want us to prepare?"

 114.  Tell the master of the house, 'The Teacher says to you, "Where is the guest room, where I may eat the Passover with my disciples?"'

 115.  He will show you a large, furnished upper room. Make preparations there."

 116.  They went, found things as he had told them, and they prepared the Passover.

 117.  When the hour had come, he sat down with the twelve apostles.

 118.  He said to them, "I have earnestly desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer,

 119.  He received a cup, and when he had given thanks, he said, "Take this, and share it among yourselves,

 120.  Likewise, he took the cup after supper, saying, "This cup is the new covenant in my blood, which is poured out for you.

 121.  But behold, the hand of him who betrays me is with me on the table.

 122.  The Son of Man indeed goes, as it has been determined, but woe to that man through whom he is betrayed!"

 123.  They began to question among themselves, which of them it was who would do this thing.

 124.  There arose also a contention among them, which of them was considered to be greatest.

 125.  He said to them, "The kings of the nations lord it over them, and those who have authority over them are called 'benefactors.'

 126.  But you are those who have continued with me in my trials.

 127.  I confer on you a kingdom, even as my Father conferred on me,

 128.  The Lord said, "Simon, Simon, behold, Satan asked to have you, that he might sift you as wheat,

 129.  He said to him, "Lord, I am ready to go with you both to prison and to death!"

 130.  He said, "I tell you, Peter, the rooster will by no means crow today until you deny that you know me three times."

 131.  He said to them, "When I sent you out without purse, and wallet, and shoes, did you lack anything?" They said, "Nothing."

 132.  They said, "Lord, behold, here are two swords." He said to them, "That is enough."

 133.  He came out, and went, as his custom was, to the Mount of Olives. His disciples also followed him.

 134.  When he was at the place, he said to them, "Pray that you don't enter into temptation."

 135.  He was withdrawn from them about a stone's throw, and he knelt down and prayed,

 136.  An angel from heaven appeared to him, strengthening him.

 137.  Being in agony he prayed more earnestly. His sweat became like great drops of blood falling down on the ground.

 138.  When he rose up from his prayer, he came to the disciples, and found them sleeping because of grief,

 139.  But Jesus said to him, "Judas, do you betray the Son of Man with a kiss?"

 140.  When those who were around him saw what was about to happen, they said to him, "Lord, shall we strike with the sword?"

 141.  A certain one of them struck the servant of the high priest, and cut off his right ear.

 142.  But Jesus answered, "Let me at least do this"—and he touched his ear, and healed him.

 143.  They seized him, and led him away, and brought him into the high priest's house. But Peter followed from a distance.

 144.  When they had kindled a fire in the middle of the courtyard, and had sat down together, Peter sat among them.

 145.  A certain servant girl saw him as he sat in the light, and looking intently at him, said, "This man also was with him."

 146.  He denied Jesus, saying, "Woman, I don't know him."

 147.  After a little while someone else saw him, and said, "You also are one of them!" But Peter answered, "Man, I am not!"

 148.  After about one hour passed, another confidently affirmed, saying, "Truly this man also was with him, for he is a Galilean!"

 149.  But Peter said, "Man, I don't know what you are talking about!" Immediately, while he was still speaking, a rooster crowed.

 150.  He went out, and wept bitterly.

 151.  The men who held Jesus mocked him and beat him.

 152.  Having blindfolded him, they struck him on the face and asked him, "Prophesy! Who is the one who struck you?"

 153.  They spoke many other things against him, insulting him.

 154.  "If you are the Christ, tell us." But he said to them, "If I tell you, you won't believe,

 155.  From now on, the Son of Man will be seated at the right hand of the power of God."

 156.  They all said, "Are you then the Son of God?" He said to them, "You say it, because I am."

 157.  They said, "Why do we need any more witness? For we ourselves have heard from his own mouth!"

 158.  The whole company of them rose up and brought him before Pilate.

 159.  Pilate asked him, "Are you the King of the Jews?" He answered him, "So you say."

 160.  Pilate said to the chief priests and the multitudes, "I find no basis for a charge against this man."

 161.  But they insisted, saying, "He stirs up the people, teaching throughout all Judea, beginning from Galilee even to this place."

 162.  But when Pilate heard Galilee mentioned, he asked if the man was a Galilean.

 163.  When he found out that he was in Herod's jurisdiction, he sent him to Herod, who was also in Jerusalem during those days.

 164.  He questioned him with many words, but he gave no answers.

 165.  The chief priests and the scribes stood, vehemently accusing him.

 166.  Herod with his soldiers humiliated him and mocked him. Dressing him in luxurious clothing, they sent him back to Pilate.

 167.  Herod and Pilate became friends with each other that very day, for before that they were enemies with each other.

 168.  Pilate called together the chief priests and the rulers and the people,

 169.  Neither has Herod, for I sent you to him, and see, nothing worthy of death has been done by him.

 170.  I will therefore chastise him and release him."

 171.  Now he had to release one prisoner to them at the feast.

 172.  But they all cried out together, saying, "Away with this man! Release to us Barabbas!"—

 173.  Then Pilate spoke to them again, wanting to release Jesus,

 174.  But they were urgent with loud voices, asking that he might be crucified. Their voices and the voices of the chief priests prevailed.

 175.  Pilate decreed that what they asked for should be done.

 176.  He released him who had been thrown into prison for insurrection and murder, for whom they asked, but he delivered Jesus up to their will.

 177.  A great multitude of the people followed him, including women who also mourned and lamented him.

 178.  But Jesus, turning to them, said, "Daughters of Jerusalem, don't weep for me, but weep for yourselves and for your children.

 179.  Then they will begin to tell the mountains, 'Fall on us!' and tell the hills, 'Cover us.'

 180.  For if they do these things in the green tree, what will be done in the dry?"

 181.  There were also others, two criminals, led with him to be put to death.

 182.  Jesus said, "Father, forgive them, for they don't know what they are doing." Dividing his garments among them, they cast lots.

 183.  The soldiers also mocked him, coming to him and offering him vinegar,

 184.  One of the criminals who was hanged insulted him, saying, "If you are the Christ, save yourself and us!"

 185.  But the other answered, and rebuking him said, "Don't you even fear God, seeing you are under the same condemnation?

 186.  And we indeed justly, for we receive the due reward for our deeds, but this man has done nothing wrong."

 187.  He said to Jesus, "Lord, remember me when you come into your Kingdom."

 188.  Jesus said to him, "Assuredly I tell you, today you will be with me in Paradise."

 189.  It was now about the sixth hour, and darkness came over the whole land until the ninth hour.

 190.  The sun was darkened, and the veil of the temple was torn in two.

 191.  Jesus, crying with a loud voice, said, "Father, into your hands I commit my spirit!" Having said this, he breathed his last.

 192.  When the centurion saw what was done, he glorified God, saying, "Certainly this was a righteous man."

 193.  All the multitudes that came together to see this, when they saw the things that were done, returned home beating their breasts.

 194.  All his acquaintances, and the women who followed with him from Galilee, stood at a distance, watching these things.

 195.  Behold, a man named Joseph, who was a member of the council, a good and righteous man

 196.  (he had not consented to their counsel and deed), from Arimathaea, a city of the Jews, who was also waiting for the Kingdom of God:

 197.  It was the day of the Preparation, and the Sabbath was drawing near.

 198.  The women, who had come with him out of Galilee, followed after, and saw the tomb, and how his body was laid.

 199.  They returned, and prepared spices and ointments. On the Sabbath they rested according to the commandment.

 200.  They found the stone rolled away from the tomb.

 201.  They entered in, and didn't find the Lord Jesus' body.

 202.  It happened, while they were greatly perplexed about this, behold, two men stood by them in dazzling clothing.

 203.  Becoming terrified, they bowed their faces down to the earth. They said to them, "Why do you seek the living among the dead?

 204.  He isn't here, but is risen. Remember what he told you when he was still in Galilee,

 205.  Now they were Mary Magdalene, Joanna, and Mary the mother of James. The other women with them told these things to the apostles.

 206.  These words seemed to them to be nonsense, and they didn't believe them.

 207.  Behold, two of them were going that very day to a village named Emmaus, which was sixty stadia from Jerusalem.

 208.  They talked with each other about all of these things which had happened.

 209.  It happened, while they talked and questioned together, that Jesus himself came near, and went with them.

 210.  But their eyes were kept from recognizing him.

 211.  He said to them, "What are you talking about as you walk, and are sad?"

 212.  Also, certain women of our company amazed us, having arrived early at the tomb;

 213.  Some of us went to the tomb, and found it just like the women had said, but they didn't see him."

 214.  He said to them, "Foolish men, and slow of heart to believe in all that the prophets have spoken!

 215.  Didn't the Christ have to suffer these things and to enter into his glory?"

 216.  Beginning from Moses and from all the prophets, he explained to them in all the Scriptures the things concerning himself.

 217.  They drew near to the village, where they were going, and he acted like he would go further.

 218.  They urged him, saying, "Stay with us, for it is almost evening, and the day is almost over." He went in to stay with them.

 219.  Their eyes were opened, and they recognized him, and he vanished out of their sight.

 220.  They rose up that very hour, returned to Jerusalem, and found the eleven gathered together, and those who were with them,

 221.  They related the things that happened along the way, and how he was recognized by them in the breaking of the bread.

 222.  As they said these things, Jesus himself stood among them, and said to them, "Peace be to you."

 223.  But they were terrified and filled with fear, and supposed that they had seen a spirit.

 224.  He said to them, "Why are you troubled? Why do doubts arise in your hearts?

 225.  When he had said this, he showed them his hands and his feet.

 226.  While they still didn't believe for joy, and wondered, he said to them, "Do you have anything here to eat?"

 227.  They gave him a piece of a broiled fish and some honeycomb.

 228.  He took them, and ate in front of them.

 229.  Then he opened their minds, that they might understand the Scriptures.

 230.  You are witnesses of these things.

 231.  He led them out as far as Bethany, and he lifted up his hands, and blessed them.

 232.  It happened, while he blessed them, that he withdrew from them, and was carried up into heaven.

 233.  They worshiped him, and returned to Jerusalem with great joy,

 234.  The first book I wrote, Theophilus, concerned all that Jesus began both to do and to teach,

 235.  Being assembled together with them, he commanded them, "Don't depart from Jerusalem, but wait for the promise of the Father, which you heard from me.

 236.  For John indeed baptized in water, but you will be baptized in the Holy Spirit not many days from now."

 237.  Therefore, when they had come together, they asked him, "Lord, are you now restoring the kingdom to Israel?"

 238.  He said to them, "It isn't for you to know times or seasons which the Father has set within his own authority.

