CHOIR reading sheet - session 9
222 lines, about 30 minutes

Same mic, same room, same gain, same distance as every
other session. One continuous recording. Pause about one
second between lines. If you fluff a line, pause and say
the whole line again - do not stop recording.

Text: World English Bible (public domain).
==============================================================

   1.  When he had said these things, as they were looking, he was taken up, and a cloud received him out of their sight.

   2.  While they were looking steadfastly into the sky as he went, behold, two men stood by them in white clothing,

   3.  Then they returned to Jerusalem from the mountain called Olivet, which is near Jerusalem, a Sabbath day's journey away.

   4.  All these with one accord continued steadfastly in prayer and supplication, along with the women, and Mary the mother of Jesus, and with his brothers.

   5.  In these days, Peter stood up in the midst of the disciples (and the number of names was about one hundred twenty), and said,

   6.  For he was numbered with us, and received his portion in this ministry.

   7.  Now this man obtained a field with the reward for his wickedness, and falling headlong, his body burst open, and all his intestines gushed out.

   8.  It became known to everyone who lived in Jerusalem that in their language that field was called 'Akeldama,' that is, 'The field of blood.'

   9.  "Of the men therefore who have accompanied us all the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us,

  10.  They put forward two, Joseph called Barsabbas, who was surnamed Justus, and Matthias.

  11.  They prayed, and said, "You, Lord, who know the hearts of all men, show which one of these two you have chosen

  12.  They drew lots for them, and the lot fell on Matthias, and he was numbered with the eleven apostles.

  13.  Now when the day of Pentecost had come, they were all with one accord in one place.

  14.  Suddenly there came from the sky a sound like the rushing of a mighty wind, and it filled all the house where they were sitting.

  15.  Tongues like fire appeared and were distributed to them, and one sat on each of them.

  16.  They were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and began to speak with other languages, as the Spirit gave them the ability to speak.

  17.  Now there were dwelling in Jerusalem Jews, devout men, from every nation under the sky.

  18.  When this sound was heard, the multitude came together, and were bewildered, because everyone heard them speaking in his own language.

  19.  They were all amazed and marveled, saying to one another, "Behold, aren't all these who speak Galileans?

  20.  How do we hear, everyone in our own native language?

  21.  Phrygia, Pamphylia, Egypt, the parts of Libya around Cyrene, visitors from Rome, both Jews and proselytes,

  22.  Cretans and Arabians: we hear them speaking in our languages the mighty works of God!"

  23.  They were all amazed, and were perplexed, saying one to another, "What does this mean?"

  24.  Others, mocking, said, "They are filled with new wine."

  25.  For these aren't drunken, as you suppose, seeing it is only the third hour of the day.

  26.  But this is what has been spoken through the prophet Joel:

  27.  Yes, and on my servants and on my handmaidens in those days, I will pour out my Spirit, and they will prophesy.

  28.  I will show wonders in the sky above, and signs on the earth beneath; blood, and fire, and billows of smoke.

  29.  The sun will be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood, before the great and glorious day of the Lord comes.

  30.  It will be, that whoever will call on the name of the Lord will be saved.'

  31.  Therefore my heart was glad, and my tongue rejoiced. Moreover my flesh also will dwell in hope;

  32.  You made known to me the ways of life. You will make me full of gladness with your presence.'

  33.  This Jesus God raised up, to which we all are witnesses.

  34.  For David didn't ascend into the heavens, but he says himself, 'The Lord said to my Lord, "Sit by my right hand,

  35.  "Let all the house of Israel therefore know certainly that God has made him both Lord and Christ, this Jesus whom you crucified."

  36.  With many other words he testified, and exhorted them, saying, "Save yourselves from this crooked generation!"

  37.  Then those who gladly received his word were baptized. There were added that day about three thousand souls.

  38.  They continued steadfastly in the apostles' teaching and fellowship, in the breaking of bread, and prayer.

  39.  Fear came on every soul, and many wonders and signs were done through the apostles.

  40.  All who believed were together, and had all things in common.

  41.  They sold their possessions and goods, and distributed them to all, according as anyone had need.

  42.  Peter and John were going up into the temple at the hour of prayer, the ninth hour.

  43.  Seeing Peter and John about to go into the temple, he asked to receive gifts for the needy.

  44.  Peter, fastening his eyes on him, with John, said, "Look at us."

  45.  He listened to them, expecting to receive something from them.

  46.  He took him by the right hand, and raised him up. Immediately his feet and his ankle bones received strength.

  47.  Leaping up, he stood, and began to walk. He entered with them into the temple, walking, leaping, and praising God.

  48.  All the people saw him walking and praising God.

  49.  But you denied the Holy and Righteous One, and asked for a murderer to be granted to you,

  50.  "Now, brothers, I know that you did this in ignorance, as did also your rulers.

  51.  But the things which God announced by the mouth of all his prophets, that Christ should suffer, he thus fulfilled.

  52.  It will be, that every soul that will not listen to that prophet will be utterly destroyed from among the people.'

  53.  Yes, and all the prophets from Samuel and those who followed after, as many as have spoken, they also told of these days.

  54.  God, having raised up his servant, Jesus, sent him to you first, to bless you, in turning away everyone of you from your wickedness."

  55.  As they spoke to the people, the priests and the captain of the temple and the Sadducees came to them,

  56.  They laid hands on them, and put them in custody until the next day, for it was now evening.

  57.  But many of those who heard the word believed, and the number of the men came to be about five thousand.

  58.  It happened in the morning, that their rulers, elders, and scribes were gathered together in Jerusalem.

  59.  Annas the high priest was there, with Caiaphas, John, Alexander, and as many as were relatives of the high priest.

  60.  When they had stood them in the middle of them, they inquired, "By what power, or in what name, have you done this?"

  61.  Then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them, "You rulers of the people, and elders of Israel,

  62.  He is 'the stone which was regarded as worthless by you, the builders, which has become the head of the corner.'

  63.  Seeing the man who was healed standing with them, they could say nothing against it.

  64.  But when they had commanded them to go aside out of the council, they conferred among themselves,

  65.  But so that this spreads no further among the people, let's threaten them, that from now on they don't speak to anyone in this name."

  66.  They called them, and commanded them not to speak at all nor teach in the name of Jesus.

  67.  For the man on whom this miracle of healing was performed was more than forty years old.

  68.  Being let go, they came to their own company, and reported all that the chief priests and the elders had said to them.

  69.  The kings of the earth take a stand, and the rulers take council together, against the Lord, and against his Christ.'

  70.  Now, Lord, look at their threats, and grant to your servants to speak your word with all boldness,

  71.  With great power, the apostles gave their testimony of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus. Great grace was on them all.

  72.  Joses, who by the apostles was surnamed Barnabas (which is, being interpreted, Son of Encouragement), a Levite, a man of Cyprus by race,

  73.  But a certain man named Ananias, with Sapphira, his wife, sold a possession,

  74.  Ananias, hearing these words, fell down and died. Great fear came on all who heard these things.

  75.  The young men arose and wrapped him up, and they carried him out and buried him.

  76.  About three hours later, his wife, not knowing what had happened, came in.

  77.  Peter answered her, "Tell me whether you sold the land for so much." She said, "Yes, for so much."

  78.  Great fear came on the whole assembly, and on all who heard these things.

  79.  By the hands of the apostles many signs and wonders were done among the people. They were all with one accord in Solomon's porch.

  80.  None of the rest dared to join them, however the people honored them.

  81.  More believers were added to the Lord, multitudes of both men and women.

  82.  Multitudes also came together from the cities around Jerusalem, bringing sick people, and those who were tormented by unclean spirits: and they were all healed.

  83.  But an angel of the Lord opened the prison doors by night, and brought them out, and said,

  84.  "Go stand and speak in the temple to the people all the words of this life."

  85.  But the officers who came didn't find them in the prison. They returned and reported,

  86.  "We found the prison shut and locked, and the guards standing before the doors, but when we opened them, we found no one inside!"

  87.  One came and told them, "Behold, the men whom you put in prison are in the temple, standing and teaching the people."

  88.  Then the captain went with the officers, and brought them without violence, for they were afraid that the people might stone them.

  89.  When they had brought them, they set them before the council. The high priest questioned them,

  90.  But Peter and the apostles answered, "We must obey God rather than men.

  91.  The God of our fathers raised up Jesus, whom you killed, hanging him on a tree.

  92.  God exalted him with his right hand to be a Prince and a Savior, to give repentance to Israel, and remission of sins.

  93.  We are His witnesses of these things; and so also is the Holy Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey him."

  94.  But they, when they heard this, were cut to the heart, and determined to kill them.

  95.  He said to them, "You men of Israel, be careful concerning these men, what you are about to do.

  96.  But if it is of God, you will not be able to overthrow it, and you would be found even to be fighting against God!"

  97.  They agreed with him. Summoning the apostles, they beat them and commanded them not to speak in the name of Jesus, and let them go.

  98.  They therefore departed from the presence of the council, rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer dishonor for Jesus' name.

  99.  Every day, in the temple and at home, they never stopped teaching and preaching Jesus, the Christ.

 100.  The twelve summoned the multitude of the disciples and said, "It is not appropriate for us to forsake the word of God and serve tables.

 101.  But we will continue steadfastly in prayer and in the ministry of the word."

 102.  Stephen, full of faith and power, performed great wonders and signs among the people.

 103.  They weren't able to withstand the wisdom and the Spirit by which he spoke.

 104.  Then they secretly induced men to say, "We have heard him speak blasphemous words against Moses and God."

 105.  They stirred up the people, the elders, and the scribes, and came against him and seized him, and brought him in to the council,

 106.  For we have heard him say that this Jesus of Nazareth will destroy this place, and will change the customs which Moses delivered to us."

 107.  All who sat in the council, fastening their eyes on him, saw his face like it was the face of an angel.

 108.  The high priest said, "Are these things so?"

 109.  He said, "Brothers and fathers, listen. The God of glory appeared to our father Abraham, when he was in Mesopotamia, before he lived in Haran,

 110.  "The patriarchs, moved with jealousy against Joseph, sold him into Egypt. God was with him,

 111.  Now a famine came over all the land of Egypt and Canaan, and great affliction. Our fathers found no food.

 112.  But when Jacob heard that there was grain in Egypt, he sent out our fathers the first time.

 113.  On the second time Joseph was made known to his brothers, and Joseph's race was revealed to Pharaoh.

 114.  Joseph sent, and summoned Jacob, his father, and all his relatives, seventy-five souls.

 115.  Jacob went down into Egypt, and he died, himself and our fathers,

 116.  "But as the time of the promise came close which God had sworn to Abraham, the people grew and multiplied in Egypt,

 117.  The same took advantage of our race, and mistreated our fathers, and forced them to throw out their babies, so that they wouldn't stay alive.

 118.  At that time Moses was born, and was exceedingly handsome. He was nourished three months in his father's house.

 119.  When he was thrown out, Pharaoh's daughter took him up, and reared him as her own son.

 120.  Moses was instructed in all the wisdom of the Egyptians. He was mighty in his words and works.

 121.  But when he was forty years old, it came into his heart to visit his brothers, the children of Israel.

 122.  Seeing one of them suffer wrong, he defended him, and avenged him who was oppressed, striking the Egyptian.

 123.  He supposed that his brothers understood that God, by his hand, was giving them deliverance; but they didn't understand.

 124.  But he who did his neighbor wrong pushed him away, saying, 'Who made you a ruler and a judge over us?

 125.  Do you want to kill me, as you killed the Egyptian yesterday?'

 126.  Moses fled at this saying, and became a stranger in the land of Midian, where he became the father of two sons.

 127.  When Moses saw it, he wondered at the sight. As he came close to see, a voice of the Lord came to him,

 128.  The Lord said to him, 'Take your sandals off of your feet, for the place where you stand is holy ground.

 129.  This man led them out, having worked wonders and signs in Egypt, in the Red Sea, and in the wilderness for forty years.

 130.  They made a calf in those days, and brought a sacrifice to the idol, and rejoiced in the works of their hands.

 131.  But Solomon built him a house.

 132.  However, the Most High doesn't dwell in temples made with hands, as the prophet says,

 133.  Didn't my hand make all these things?'

 134.  "You stiff-necked and uncircumcised in heart and ears, you always resist the Holy Spirit! As your fathers did, so you do.

 135.  You received the law as it was ordained by angels, and didn't keep it!"

 136.  Now when they heard these things, they were cut to the heart, and they gnashed at him with their teeth.

 137.  But they cried out with a loud voice, and stopped their ears, and rushed at him with one accord.

 138.  They threw him out of the city, and stoned him. The witnesses placed their garments at the feet of a young man named Saul.

 139.  They stoned Stephen as he called out, saying, "Lord Jesus, receive my spirit!"

 140.  He kneeled down, and cried with a loud voice, "Lord, don't hold this sin against them!" When he had said this, he fell asleep.

 141.  Devout men buried Stephen, and lamented greatly over him.

 142.  But Saul ravaged the assembly, entering into every house, and dragged both men and women off to prison.

 143.  Therefore those who were scattered abroad went around preaching the word.

 144.  Philip went down to the city of Samaria, and proclaimed to them the Christ.

 145.  The multitudes listened with one accord to the things that were spoken by Philip, when they heard and saw the signs which he did.

 146.  There was great joy in that city.

 147.  They listened to him, because for a long time he had amazed them with his sorceries.

 148.  Simon himself also believed. Being baptized, he continued with Philip. Seeing signs and great miracles occurring, he was amazed.

 149.  Now when the apostles who were at Jerusalem heard that Samaria had received the word of God, they sent Peter and John to them,

 150.  Then they laid their hands on them, and they received the Holy Spirit.

 151.  Now when Simon saw that the Holy Spirit was given through the laying on of the apostles' hands, he offered them money,

 152.  But Peter said to him, "May your silver perish with you, because you thought you could obtain the gift of God with money!

 153.  You have neither part nor lot in this matter, for your heart isn't right before God.

 154.  Repent therefore of this, your wickedness, and ask God if perhaps the thought of your heart may be forgiven you.

 155.  For I see that you are in the gall of bitterness and in the bondage of iniquity."

 156.  Simon answered, "Pray for me to the Lord, that none of the things which you have spoken happen to me."

 157.  He was returning and sitting in his chariot, and was reading the prophet Isaiah.

 158.  The Spirit said to Philip, "Go near, and join yourself to this chariot."

 159.  Philip ran to him, and heard him reading Isaiah the prophet, and said, "Do you understand what you are reading?"

 160.  He said, "How can I, unless someone explains it to me?" He begged Philip to come up and sit with him.

 161.  In his humiliation, his judgment was taken away. Who will declare His generation? For his life is taken from the earth."

 162.  The eunuch answered Philip, "Who is the prophet talking about? About himself, or about someone else?"

 163.  Philip opened his mouth, and beginning from this Scripture, preached to him Jesus.

 164.  He commanded the chariot to stand still, and they both went down into the water, both Philip and the eunuch, and he baptized him.

 165.  But Philip was found at Azotus. Passing through, he preached the Good News to all the cities, until he came to Caesarea.

 166.  But Saul, still breathing threats and slaughter against the disciples of the Lord, went to the high priest,

 167.  As he traveled, it happened that he got close to Damascus, and suddenly a light from the sky shone around him.

 168.  He fell on the earth, and heard a voice saying to him, "Saul, Saul, why do you persecute me?"

 169.  He said, "Who are you, Lord?" The Lord said, "I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting.

 170.  But rise up, and enter into the city, and you will be told what you must do."

 171.  The men who traveled with him stood speechless, hearing the sound, but seeing no one.

 172.  He was without sight for three days, and neither ate nor drank.

 173.  Now there was a certain disciple at Damascus named Ananias. The Lord said to him in a vision, "Ananias!" He said, "Behold, it's me, Lord."

 174.  But Ananias answered, "Lord, I have heard from many about this man, how much evil he did to your saints at Jerusalem.

 175.  Here he has authority from the chief priests to bind all who call on your name."

 176.  For I will show him how many things he must suffer for my name's sake."

 177.  Immediately something like scales fell from his eyes, and he received his sight. He arose and was baptized.

 178.  He took food and was strengthened. Saul stayed several days with the disciples who were at Damascus.

 179.  Immediately in the synagogues he proclaimed the Christ, that he is the Son of God.

 180.  But Saul increased more in strength, and confounded the Jews who lived at Damascus, proving that this is the Christ.

 181.  When many days were fulfilled, the Jews conspired together to kill him,

 182.  He was with them entering into Jerusalem,

 183.  When the brothers knew it, they brought him down to Caesarea, and sent him off to Tarsus.

 184.  It happened, as Peter went throughout all those parts, he came down also to the saints who lived at Lydda.

 185.  There he found a certain man named Aeneas, who had been bedridden for eight years, because he was paralyzed.

 186.  Peter said to him, "Aeneas, Jesus Christ heals you. Get up and make your bed!" Immediately he arose.

 187.  All who lived at Lydda and in Sharon saw him, and they turned to the Lord.

 188.  It happened in those days that she fell sick, and died. When they had washed her, they laid her in an upper room.

 189.  He gave her his hand, and raised her up. Calling the saints and widows, he presented her alive.

 190.  And it became known throughout all Joppa, and many believed in the Lord.

 191.  It happened, that he stayed many days in Joppa with one Simon, a tanner.

 192.  Now there was a certain man in Caesarea, Cornelius by name, a centurion of what was called the Italian Regiment,

 193.  Now send men to Joppa, and get Simon, who is surnamed Peter.

 194.  He lodges with one Simon, a tanner, whose house is by the seaside."

 195.  Having explained everything to them, he sent them to Joppa.

 196.  He became hungry and desired to eat, but while they were preparing, he fell into a trance.

 197.  He saw heaven opened and a certain container descending to him, like a great sheet let down by four corners on the earth,

 198.  A voice came to him, "Rise, Peter, kill and eat!"

 199.  But Peter said, "Not so, Lord; for I have never eaten anything that is common or unclean."

 200.  A voice came to him again the second time, "What God has cleansed, you must not call unclean."

 201.  This was done three times, and immediately the vessel was received up into heaven.

 202.  While Peter was pondering the vision, the Spirit said to him, "Behold, three men seek you.

 203.  But arise, get down, and go with them, doubting nothing; for I have sent them."

 204.  Peter went down to the men, and said, "Behold, I am he whom you seek. Why have you come?"

 205.  On the next day they entered into Caesarea. Cornelius was waiting for them, having called together his relatives and his near friends.

 206.  When it happened that Peter entered, Cornelius met him, fell down at his feet, and worshiped him.

 207.  But Peter raised him up, saying, "Stand up! I myself am also a man."

 208.  As he talked with him, he went in and found many gathered together.

 209.  Therefore also I came without complaint when I was sent for. I ask therefore, why did you send for me?"

 210.  Peter opened his mouth and said, "Truly I perceive that God doesn't show favoritism;

 211.  The word which he sent to the children of Israel, preaching good news of peace by Jesus Christ—he is Lord of all—

 212.  God raised him up the third day, and gave him to be revealed,

 213.  All the prophets testify about him, that through his name everyone who believes in him will receive remission of sins."

 214.  While Peter was still speaking these words, the Holy Spirit fell on all those who heard the word.

 215.  For they heard them speaking in other languages and magnifying God. Then Peter answered,

 216.  "Can any man forbid the water, that these who have received the Holy Spirit as well as we should not be baptized?"

 217.  He commanded them to be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ. Then they asked him to stay some days.

 218.  Now the apostles and the brothers who were in Judea heard that the Gentiles had also received the word of God.

 219.  When Peter had come up to Jerusalem, those who were of the circumcision contended with him,

 220.  But Peter began, and explained to them in order, saying,

 221.  I also heard a voice saying to me, 'Rise, Peter, kill and eat!'

 222.  But I said, 'Not so, Lord, for nothing unholy or unclean has ever entered into my mouth.'

