CHOIR reading sheet - session 6
218 lines, about 30 minutes

Same mic, same room, same gain, same distance as every
other session. One continuous recording. Pause about one
second between lines. If you fluff a line, pause and say
the whole line again - do not stop recording.

Text: World English Bible (public domain).
==============================================================

   1.  When they saw it, they publicized widely the saying which was spoken to them about this child.

   2.  All who heard it wondered at the things which were spoken to them by the shepherds.

   3.  But Mary kept all these sayings, pondering them in her heart.

   4.  The shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen, just as it was told them.

   5.  (as it is written in the law of the Lord, "Every male who opens the womb shall be called holy to the Lord"),

   6.  It had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he should not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ.

   7.  "Now you are releasing your servant, Master, according to your word, in peace;

   8.  Joseph and his mother were marveling at the things which were spoken concerning him,

   9.  Yes, a sword will pierce through your own soul, that the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed."

  10.  When they had accomplished all things that were according to the law of the Lord, they returned into Galilee, to their own city, Nazareth.

  11.  The child was growing, and was becoming strong in spirit, being filled with wisdom, and the grace of God was upon him.

  12.  His parents went every year to Jerusalem at the feast of the Passover.

  13.  When he was twelve years old, they went up to Jerusalem according to the custom of the feast,

  14.  When they didn't find him, they returned to Jerusalem, looking for him.

  15.  All who heard him were amazed at his understanding and his answers.

  16.  He said to them, "Why were you looking for me? Didn't you know that I must be in my Father's house?"

  17.  They didn't understand the saying which he spoke to them.

  18.  And he went down with them, and came to Nazareth. He was subject to them, and his mother kept all these sayings in her heart.

  19.  And Jesus increased in wisdom and stature, and in favor with God and men.

  20.  He came into all the region around the Jordan, preaching the baptism of repentance for remission of sins.

  21.  Every valley will be filled. Every mountain and hill will be brought low. The crooked will become straight, and the rough ways smooth.

  22.  All flesh will see God's salvation.'"

  23.  The multitudes asked him, "What then must we do?"

  24.  He answered them, "He who has two coats, let him give to him who has none. He who has food, let him do likewise."

  25.  Tax collectors also came to be baptized, and they said to him, "Teacher, what must we do?"

  26.  He said to them, "Collect no more than that which is appointed to you."

  27.  As the people were in expectation, and all men reasoned in their hearts concerning John, whether perhaps he was the Christ,

  28.  Then with many other exhortations he preached good news to the people,

  29.  Now it happened, when all the people were baptized, Jesus also had been baptized, and was praying. The sky was opened,

  30.  Jesus himself, when he began to teach, was about thirty years old, being the son (as was supposed) of Joseph, the son of Heli,

  31.  Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan, and was led by the Spirit into the wilderness

  32.  The devil said to him, "If you are the Son of God, command this stone to become bread."

  33.  Jesus answered him, saying, "It is written, 'Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word of God.'"

  34.  The devil, leading him up on a high mountain, showed him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time.

  35.  If you therefore will worship before me, it will all be yours."

  36.  Jesus answered him, "Get behind me Satan! For it is written, 'You shall worship the Lord your God, and you shall serve him only.'"

  37.  Jesus answering, said to him, "It has been said, 'You shall not tempt the Lord your God.'"

  38.  When the devil had completed every temptation, he departed from him until another time.

  39.  Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit into Galilee, and news about him spread through all the surrounding area.

  40.  He taught in their synagogues, being glorified by all.

  41.  The book of the prophet Isaiah was handed to him. He opened the book, and found the place where it was written,

  42.  He closed the book, gave it back to the attendant, and sat down. The eyes of all in the synagogue were fastened on him.

  43.  He began to tell them, "Today, this Scripture has been fulfilled in your hearing."

  44.  All testified about him, and wondered at the gracious words which proceeded out of his mouth, and they said, "Isn't this Joseph's son?"

  45.  He said, "Most certainly I tell you, no prophet is acceptable in his hometown.

  46.  Elijah was sent to none of them, except to Zarephath, in the land of Sidon, to a woman who was a widow.

  47.  There were many lepers in Israel in the time of Elisha the prophet, yet not one of them was cleansed, except Naaman, the Syrian."

  48.  They were all filled with wrath in the synagogue, as they heard these things.

  49.  But he, passing through their midst, went his way.

  50.  He came down to Capernaum, a city of Galilee. He was teaching them on the Sabbath day,

  51.  In the synagogue there was a man who had a spirit of an unclean demon, and he cried out with a loud voice,

  52.  News about him went out into every place of the surrounding region.

  53.  He rose up from the synagogue, and entered into Simon's house. Simon's mother-in-law was afflicted with a great fever, and they begged him for her.

  54.  He stood over her, and rebuked the fever; and it left her. Immediately she rose up and served them.

  55.  He was preaching in the synagogues of Galilee.

  56.  Now it happened, while the multitude pressed on him and heard the word of God, that he was standing by the lake of Gennesaret.

  57.  He saw two boats standing by the lake, but the fishermen had gone out of them, and were washing their nets.

  58.  When he had finished speaking, he said to Simon, "Put out into the deep, and let down your nets for a catch."

  59.  Simon answered him, "Master, we worked all night, and took nothing; but at your word I will let down the net."

  60.  When they had done this, they caught a great multitude of fish, and their net was breaking.

  61.  But Simon Peter, when he saw it, fell down at Jesus' knees, saying, "Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, Lord."

  62.  For he was amazed, and all who were with him, at the catch of fish which they had caught;

  63.  When they had brought their boats to land, they left everything, and followed him.

  64.  He stretched out his hand, and touched him, saying, "I want to. Be made clean." Immediately the leprosy left him.

  65.  But the report concerning him spread much more, and great multitudes came together to hear, and to be healed by him of their infirmities.

  66.  But he withdrew himself into the desert, and prayed.

  67.  Behold, men brought a paralyzed man on a cot, and they sought to bring him in to lay before Jesus.

  68.  Seeing their faith, he said to him, "Man, your sins are forgiven you."

  69.  The scribes and the Pharisees began to reason, saying, "Who is this that speaks blasphemies? Who can forgive sins, but God alone?"

  70.  But Jesus, perceiving their thoughts, answered them, "Why are you reasoning so in your hearts?

  71.  Which is easier to say, 'Your sins are forgiven you;' or to say, 'Arise and walk?'

  72.  Immediately he rose up before them, and took up that which he was laying on, and departed to his house, glorifying God.

  73.  Amazement took hold on all, and they glorified God. They were filled with fear, saying, "We have seen strange things today."

  74.  After these things he went out, and saw a tax collector named Levi sitting at the tax office, and said to him, "Follow me!"

  75.  He left everything, and rose up and followed him.

  76.  Levi made a great feast for him in his house. There was a great crowd of tax collectors and others who were reclining with them.

  77.  Their scribes and the Pharisees murmured against his disciples, saying, "Why do you eat and drink with the tax collectors and sinners?"

  78.  Jesus answered them, "Those who are healthy have no need for a physician, but those who are sick do.

  79.  I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance."

  80.  They said to him, "Why do John's disciples often fast and pray, likewise also the disciples of the Pharisees, but yours eat and drink?"

  81.  He said to them, "Can you make the friends of the bridegroom fast, while the bridegroom is with them?

  82.  But the days will come when the bridegroom will be taken away from them. Then they will fast in those days."

  83.  But new wine must be put into fresh wineskins, and both are preserved.

  84.  No man having drunk old wine immediately desires new, for he says, 'The old is better.'"

  85.  But some of the Pharisees said to them, "Why do you do that which is not lawful to do on the Sabbath day?"

  86.  Jesus, answering them, said, "Haven't you read what David did when he was hungry, he, and those who were with him;

  87.  He said to them, "The Son of Man is lord of the Sabbath."

  88.  It also happened on another Sabbath that he entered into the synagogue and taught. There was a man there, and his right hand was withered.

  89.  The scribes and the Pharisees watched him, to see whether he would heal on the Sabbath, that they might find an accusation against him.

  90.  But they were filled with rage, and talked with one another about what they might do to Jesus.

  91.  It happened in these days, that he went out to the mountain to pray, and he continued all night in prayer to God.

  92.  When it was day, he called his disciples, and from them he chose twelve, whom he also named apostles:

  93.  Matthew; Thomas; James, the son of Alphaeus; Simon, who was called the Zealot;

  94.  Judas the son of James; and Judas Iscariot, who also became a traitor.

  95.  All the multitude sought to touch him, for power came out from him and healed them all.

  96.  He lifted up his eyes to his disciples, and said, "Blessed are you who are poor, for yours is the Kingdom of God.

  97.  Blessed are you who hunger now, for you will be filled. Blessed are you who weep now, for you will laugh.

  98.  "But woe to you who are rich! For you have received your consolation.

  99.  Woe to you, you who are full now, for you will be hungry. Woe to you who laugh now, for you will mourn and weep.

 100.  Woe, when men speak well of you, for their fathers did the same thing to the false prophets.

 101.  "But I tell you who hear: love your enemies, do good to those who hate you,

 102.  To him who strikes you on the cheek, offer also the other; and from him who takes away your cloak, don't withhold your coat also.

 103.  Give to everyone who asks you, and don't ask him who takes away your goods to give them back again.

 104.  "As you would like people to do to you, do exactly so to them.

 105.  If you love those who love you, what credit is that to you? For even sinners love those who love them.

 106.  If you do good to those who do good to you, what credit is that to you? For even sinners do the same.

 107.  Therefore be merciful, even as your Father is also merciful.

 108.  Don't judge, and you won't be judged. Don't condemn, and you won't be condemned. Set free, and you will be set free.

 109.  He spoke a parable to them. "Can the blind guide the blind? Won't they both fall into a pit?

 110.  A disciple is not above his teacher, but everyone when he is fully trained will be like his teacher.

 111.  Why do you see the speck of chaff that is in your brother's eye, but don't consider the beam that is in your own eye?

 112.  For there is no good tree that brings forth rotten fruit; nor again a rotten tree that brings forth good fruit.

 113.  For each tree is known by its own fruit. For people don't gather figs from thorns, nor do they gather grapes from a bramble bush.

 114.  "Why do you call me, 'Lord, Lord,' and don't do the things which I say?

 115.  Everyone who comes to me, and hears my words, and does them, I will show you who he is like.

 116.  After he had finished speaking in the hearing of the people, he entered into Capernaum.

 117.  A certain centurion's servant, who was dear to him, was sick and at the point of death.

 118.  When he heard about Jesus, he sent to him elders of the Jews, asking him to come and save his servant.

 119.  When they came to Jesus, they begged him earnestly, saying, "He is worthy for you to do this for him,

 120.  Therefore I didn't even think myself worthy to come to you; but say the word, and my servant will be healed.

 121.  Those who were sent, returning to the house, found that the servant who had been sick was well.

 122.  It happened soon afterwards, that he went to a city called Nain. Many of his disciples, along with a great multitude, went with him.

 123.  When the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her, and said to her, "Don't cry."

 124.  He came near and touched the coffin, and the bearers stood still. He said, "Young man, I tell you, arise!"

 125.  He who was dead sat up, and began to speak. And he gave him to his mother.

 126.  Fear took hold of all, and they glorified God, saying, "A great prophet has arisen among us!" and, "God has visited his people!"

 127.  This report went out concerning him in the whole of Judea, and in all the surrounding region.

 128.  The disciples of John told him about all these things.

 129.  In that hour he cured many of diseases and plagues and evil spirits; and to many who were blind he gave sight.

 130.  Blessed is he who finds no occasion for stumbling in me."

 131.  But what did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I tell you, and much more than a prophet.

 132.  This is he of whom it is written, 'Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way before you.'

 133.  When all the people and the tax collectors heard this, they declared God to be just, having been baptized with John's baptism.

 134.  But the Pharisees and the lawyers rejected the counsel of God, not being baptized by him themselves.

 135.  "To what then will I liken the people of this generation? What are they like?

 136.  For John the Baptizer came neither eating bread nor drinking wine, and you say, 'He has a demon.'

 137.  Wisdom is justified by all her children."

 138.  One of the Pharisees invited him to eat with him. He entered into the Pharisee's house, and sat at the table.

 139.  Jesus answered him, "Simon, I have something to tell you." He said, "Teacher, say on."

 140.  "A certain lender had two debtors. The one owed five hundred denarii, and the other fifty.

 141.  When they couldn't pay, he forgave them both. Which of them therefore will love him most?"

 142.  Simon answered, "He, I suppose, to whom he forgave the most." He said to him, "You have judged correctly."

 143.  You gave me no kiss, but she, since the time I came in, has not ceased to kiss my feet.

 144.  You didn't anoint my head with oil, but she has anointed my feet with ointment.

 145.  Therefore I tell you, her sins, which are many, are forgiven, for she loved much. But to whom little is forgiven, the same loves little."

 146.  He said to her, "Your sins are forgiven."

 147.  Those who sat at the table with him began to say to themselves, "Who is this who even forgives sins?"

 148.  He said to the woman, "Your faith has saved you. Go in peace."

 149.  When a great multitude came together, and people from every city were coming to him, he spoke by a parable.

 150.  Other seed fell on the rock, and as soon as it grew, it withered away, because it had no moisture.

 151.  Other fell amid the thorns, and the thorns grew with it, and choked it.

 152.  Then his disciples asked him, "What does this parable mean?"

 153.  Now the parable is this: The seed is the word of God.

 154.  For nothing is hidden, that will not be revealed; nor anything secret, that will not be known and come to light.

 155.  His mother and brothers came to him, and they could not come near him for the crowd.

 156.  It was told him by some saying, "Your mother and your brothers stand outside, desiring to see you."

 157.  But he answered them, "My mother and my brothers are these who hear the word of God, and do it."

 158.  But as they sailed, he fell asleep. A wind storm came down on the lake, and they were taking on dangerous amounts of water.

 159.  They arrived at the country of the Gadarenes, which is opposite Galilee.

 160.  Jesus asked him, "What is your name?" He said, "Legion," for many demons had entered into him.

 161.  They begged him that he would not command them to go into the abyss.

 162.  When those who fed them saw what had happened, they fled, and told it in the city and in the country.

 163.  Those who saw it told them how he who had been possessed by demons was healed.

 164.  But the man from whom the demons had gone out begged him that he might go with him, but Jesus sent him away, saying,

 165.  It happened, when Jesus returned, that the multitude welcomed him, for they were all waiting for him.

 166.  But Jesus said, "Someone did touch me, for I perceived that power has gone out of me."

 167.  He said to her, "Daughter, cheer up. Your faith has made you well. Go in peace."

 168.  While he still spoke, one from the ruler of the synagogue's house came, saying to him, "Your daughter is dead. Don't trouble the Teacher."

 169.  But Jesus hearing it, answered him, "Don't be afraid. Only believe, and she will be healed."

 170.  When he came to the house, he didn't allow anyone to enter in, except Peter, John, James, the father of the child, and her mother.

 171.  All were weeping and mourning her, but he said, "Don't weep. She isn't dead, but sleeping."

 172.  They were ridiculing him, knowing that she was dead.

 173.  But he put them all outside, and taking her by the hand, he called, saying, "Child, arise!"

 174.  Her spirit returned, and she rose up immediately. He commanded that something be given to her to eat.

 175.  Her parents were amazed, but he commanded them to tell no one what had been done.

 176.  He called the twelve together, and gave them power and authority over all demons, and to cure diseases.

 177.  He sent them forth to preach the Kingdom of God, and to heal the sick.

 178.  He said to them, "Take nothing for your journey—neither staffs, nor wallet, nor bread, nor money; neither have two coats apiece.

 179.  Into whatever house you enter, stay there, and depart from there.

 180.  As many as don't receive you, when you depart from that city, shake off even the dust from your feet for a testimony against them."

 181.  They departed, and went throughout the villages, preaching the Good News, and healing everywhere.

 182.  Herod said, "John I beheaded, but who is this, about whom I hear such things?" He sought to see him.

 183.  For they were about five thousand men. He said to his disciples, "Make them sit down in groups of about fifty each."

 184.  They did so, and made them all sit down.

 185.  They ate, and were all filled. They gathered up twelve baskets of broken pieces that were left over.

 186.  It happened, as he was praying alone, that the disciples were with him, and he asked them, "Who do the multitudes say that I am?"

 187.  They answered, "'John the Baptizer,' but others say, 'Elijah,' and others, that one of the old prophets is risen again."

 188.  He said to them, "But who do you say that I am?" Peter answered, "The Christ of God."

 189.  But he warned them, and commanded them to tell this to no one,

 190.  He said to all, "If anyone desires to come after me, let him deny himself, take up his cross, and follow me.

 191.  For whoever desires to save his life will lose it, but whoever will lose his life for my sake, the same will save it.

 192.  For what does it profit a man if he gains the whole world, and loses or forfeits his own self?

 193.  It happened about eight days after these sayings, that he took with him Peter, John, and James, and went up onto the mountain to pray.

 194.  As he was praying, the appearance of his face was altered, and his clothing became white and dazzling.

 195.  Behold, two men were talking with him, who were Moses and Elijah,

 196.  While he said these things, a cloud came and overshadowed them, and they were afraid as they entered into the cloud.

 197.  A voice came out of the cloud, saying, "This is my beloved Son. Listen to him!"

 198.  It happened on the next day, when they had come down from the mountain, that a great multitude met him.

 199.  Behold, a man from the crowd called out, saying, "Teacher, I beg you to look at my son, for he is my only child.

 200.  I begged your disciples to cast it out, and they couldn't."

 201.  Jesus answered, "Faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you and bear with you? Bring your son here."

 202.  "Let these words sink into your ears, for the Son of Man will be delivered up into the hands of men."

 203.  There arose an argument among them about which of them was the greatest.

 204.  Jesus, perceiving the reasoning of their hearts, took a little child, and set him by his side,

 205.  John answered, "Master, we saw someone casting out demons in your name, and we forbade him, because he doesn't follow with us."

 206.  Jesus said to him, "Don't forbid him, for he who is not against us is for us."

 207.  It came to pass, when the days were near that he should be taken up, he intently set his face to go to Jerusalem,

 208.  They didn't receive him, because he was traveling with his face set towards Jerusalem.

 209.  But he turned and rebuked them, "You don't know of what kind of spirit you are.

 210.  For the Son of Man didn't come to destroy men's lives, but to save them." They went to another village.

 211.  As they went on the way, a certain man said to him, "I want to follow you wherever you go, Lord."

 212.  He said to another, "Follow me!" But he said, "Lord, allow me first to go and bury my father."

 213.  But Jesus said to him, "Leave the dead to bury their own dead, but you go and announce the Kingdom of God."

 214.  Another also said, "I want to follow you, Lord, but first allow me to say good-bye to those who are at my house."

 215.  But Jesus said to him, "No one, having put his hand to the plow, and looking back, is fit for the Kingdom of God."

 216.  Go your ways. Behold, I send you out as lambs among wolves.

 217.  Carry no purse, nor wallet, nor sandals. Greet no one on the way.

 218.  Into whatever house you enter, first say, 'Peace be to this house.'

